---
source: Zhang 等 - 2024 - Ce‐Doping Rather Than CeO2 Modification and Their Synergistic Effect Promotion from Ce S.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 44.901s
generated: 2026-01-10T09:09:44.427082Z
---

**[www.advenergymat.de](http://www.advenergymat.de)**

# **Ce-Doping Rather Than CeO2 Modification and Their Synergistic Effect: Promotion from Ce Species in the Electrocatalytic Oxidation of 5-Hydroxymethylfurfural Over NiFe–LDH**

*Yanyan Zhang, Guangtong Hai, Zhuoshen Huang, Zhimeng Liu, Xiubing Huang,\* and Ge Wang\**

**Electrocatalytic oxidation of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMFOR) is an effective route to produce value-added chemicals with low energy consumption. In this work, efficient electrocatalysts are prepared by varying the amount of Ce doping and CeO2 modification on NiFe layered double hydroxide (NiFe–LDH) nanosheets supported on carbon cloth (CC). Through Ce doping and heterogeneous interface construction, the electronic structure and coordination chemistry of NiFe–LDH are greatly changed. Compared to CeO2 modification and the synergistic effect of Ce-doping and CeO2 modification, CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH with only Ce-doping show excellent charge transfer ability, higher HMF conversion (95.73%), 2,5-furandicarboxylic acid (FDCA) selectivity (93.31%), and Faraday efficiency (99.47%) at only 1.44** *V***RHE. Density-functional theory calculations and X-ray fine structure spectroscopy demonstrate that Ce doping, compared with CeO2 modification and their synergistic effects, significantly facilitates the electron transport and optimizes intermediate adsorption by effectively lowering the activation energy for the transformation of 5-formyl-2-furancarboxylic acid (FFCA) and encourage the conversion of FFCA to FDCA. Overall, this work systemically investigates the HMFOR behaviors of CC@NiFe–LDH under Ce doping, CeO2 modification, and their synergetic effect, which provides some guidance on the development of high-performance electrocatalysts for HMFOR performance.**

Y. Zhang, Z. Huang, Z. Liu, X. Huang, G. Wang Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Materials Genome Engineering Beijing Key Laboratory of Function Materials for Molecule & Structure

Construction

School of Materials Science and Engineering University of Science and Technology Beijing

Beijing 100083, P. R. China

E-mail: [xiubinghuang@ustb.edu.cn;](mailto:xiubinghuang@ustb.edu.cn) [gewang@ustb.edu.cn](mailto:gewang@ustb.edu.cn)

G. Hai

Institute of Zhejiang University-Quzhou Zhejiang University 99 Zheda Road, Quzhou, Zhejiang 324000, P. R. China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202401449>

## **1. Introduction**

The human need for energy and chemicals from humans is growing as a result of the world economy's fast expansion. The excessive consumption of fossil fuels consequently leads to an energy crisis and environmental issues.[\[1\]](#page-13-0) In this regard, finding sustainable alternatives to fossil products is the key to the sustainable development of human society. The most plentiful and biorenewable carbon-neutral resource, lignocellulosic biomass, has drawn a lot of interest over the past decade. Among them, 5-Hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF), as an important platform chemical produced by dehydration of C6 carbohydrates, has become a multifunctional molecule that can be oxidized into value-added molecules due to the hydroxymethyl and formyl functional groups of HMF bound to the furan ring. It is possible to obtain the products of 2,5-diformylfuran (DFF), 5-hydroxymethyl-2-furancarboxylic acid (HMFCA), 5-formyl-2-furancarboxylic acid (FFCA), and 2,5-furanodicarboxylic acid (FDCA) via oxidation. Notably, the US Department of Energy identified

FDCA as one of the most promising bio-derived platform molecules in 2004 to replace terephthalic acid, a petroleum-based monomer, and create renewable biomass-based plastics.[\[2\]](#page-13-0)

Electrocatalytic oxidation of HMF (HMFOR) has been widely studied in the last five years due to its satisfactory efficiency compared to the high costs and low conversion rates via photo- and thermo-catalysis.[\[3\]](#page-13-0) Currently, the majority of investigations combine the HMFOR with cathodic hydrogen generation, which increases energy efficiency and resolves the anode's sluggish reaction kinetics in the standard water electrolysis method.[\[4\]](#page-13-0) In addition, high-value-added compounds can be produced rather than low-value oxygen, reducing the likelihood of hydrogen and oxygen crossover in water cracking.[\[5\]](#page-13-0) High FDCA yields and low power consumption are typically used to assess the better efficiency of electrochemical conversion.[\[6\]](#page-13-0) Therefore, the solution **[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.advenergymat.de](http://www.advenergymat.de)**

16146840, 2024, 38, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/aenm.202401449 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

to these issues should be the rational design and preparation of robust and active catalysts.[\[7\]](#page-13-0) Currently, noble metal-containing catalysts are advanced catalysts in electrocatalytic HMFOR. However, their widespread application is fundamentally hampered by the rarity of rare components.[\[8\]](#page-13-0) As such, there is a pressing need to discover low-cost yet highly effective alternatives.

Because of their superior redox capacity and electrons in *eg* orbitals, the development of transition metal layered double hydroxide (LDH) catalyst has been given priority.[\[9\]](#page-13-0) In addition, their exposed metal centers act as ligands, lowering the energy barrier for electrochemical reactions and increasing the electrolyte ion trapping capacity, which contributes to enhancing the kinetics of the electrochemical process even further.[\[10\]](#page-13-0) Among the various kinds of LDHs electrocatalyts, NiFe–LDHs have attracted extensive interest,[\[11\]](#page-13-0) in which Fe3<sup>+</sup> is essential for modifying the electronic structure, rebuilding the surface energy, and decreasing the strength of NiFe–LDH adsorption on \*OH.[\[12\]](#page-13-0) Liu et al. found that bimetallic NiFe–LDHs nanosheets on carbon fiber paper had many active sites and can effectively catalyze the oxidation of HMF to FDCA.[\[13\]](#page-13-0) Nevertheless, the bulk LDH's poor conductivity and limited number of accessible active sites prevent future advancements in catalytic efficacy.[\[14\]](#page-13-0) The doping of foreign metals has been proven to effectively regulate the electronic structure and electrocatalytic performance of LDHs without any unwanted phase separation.[\[15\]](#page-13-0) Recent research has also demonstrated that because of the close bond between different component materials, interface engineering is a valuable technique for modifying the electrical structure, regulating intermediate adsorption, and disclosing new active sites.[\[16\]](#page-13-0) According to preliminary research, Ce doping at the optimal level in LDH structures can enhance catalytic activity by adjusting the electronic structure and local chemical binding environment resulting in enhanced catalytic activity.[\[17\]](#page-13-0) In addition, the heterogeneous interface constructed by CeO2 modification promotes the structural evolution and charge transfer of the catalyst.[\[18\]](#page-13-0) Furthermore, LDHs' electronic structure can be modulated and the change transfer during catalysis can be accelerated via redox interactions between Ce3<sup>+</sup> and Ce4<sup>+</sup>. [\[19\]](#page-13-0) A sufficient number of active sites and rapid oxygen transport to the reaction sites are guaranteed by the improved electron/ion conductivity and ion/charge transfer behavior of the advanced structure, which also accounts for improved stability in the electrocatalytic performance.[\[20\]](#page-13-0) However, there are many contradictions in the current discussion on the mechanism of the effect of Ce doping, CeO2 modification, or both synergistically on the electrocatalytic performance of LDHs,[\[21\]](#page-13-0) which needs further systemical investigation.

In this work, carbon cloth (CC) supported NiFe–LDH nanosheet arrays with different Ce doping contents (0%, 1%, 3%, and 5% referring the molar percentage of Ce on the total molar of Ni and Fe) and different Ce deposition times (10, 15, 20 min) were synthesized via hydrothermal and electrodopisition method. It is found that CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH exhibited the best performance, exhibiting excellent HMF conversion (95.73%), FDCA yield (93.31%) and Faraday efficiency (99.47%) at 1.44 *V*RHE. Density-functional theory (DFT) calculations and Xray fine structure spectroscopy (XAFS) further demonstrated that Ce doping into CC@NiFe–LDH allowed the active centers on the surface of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH to efficiently regulate the intermediate adsorption and promote electron transfer, thereby significantly lowering the reaction energy of the FFCA step. This work will benefit the design of efficient electrocatalysts and the elucidation of the HMFOR enhancement mechanism of Ce-doped CC@NiFe–LDH.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

#### **2.1. Fabrication and Characterization of Catalysts**

CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH with nanostructure arrays/graded structures was obtained by hydrothermal method, as shown in **Scheme [1](#page-2-0)**. [\[22\]](#page-13-0) In order to investigate the effects of Ce doping and CeO2 modification on the HMFOR properties of CC@NiFe– LDH, a series of CeO2-modified CC@NiFe–LDH and CeO2 modified CC@NiFeCe-LDH after Ce doping were prepared by controlling the electrodeposition time.

In Figures S1–S3 (Supporting Information) and **Figure 1**[a,](#page-3-0) SEM images show the microscopic morphology of CC@NiFe– LDH, CC@NiFeCe(1%)-LDH, CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH, and CC@NiFeCe(5%)-LDH nanosheet arrays. Smooth layers of nanosheets are uniformly and densely anchored to the carbon fiber surface perpendicular to the carbon cloth substrate. Bilayer vertical nanosheets are created when Ce is added. These nanosheets offer the catalyst surface a multitude of linked electrolyte channels, resulting in shorter ion diffusion/exchange routes and a greater surface area for electrochemical processes.[\[23\]](#page-13-0) Figures S4 and S5 (Supporting Information) shows the microscopic morphology of CC@NiFe–LDH/CeO2-15 and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO2-15 nanosheet arrays, respectively. Unlike the hydrothermally synthesized CC@NiFeCe(3%)- LDH, nanoparticles are clearly observed on the surface of the nanosheets in the samples obtained after electrodeposition.

Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) was used to analyze the catalyst's morphology. Similar interconnected nanosheets were observed in CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH after the introduction of Ce (Figure [1b;](#page-3-0) Figure S6, Supporting Information). TEM images of CC@NiFe–LDH/CeO2-15 and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO2- 15 (Figures S7 and S8, Supporting Information) showed that CC@NiFe–LDH/CeO2-15 and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO2-15 contain a large number of CeO2 nanoparticles per nanosheet. Conversely, the TEM images of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH showed a smooth lamellar nanosheet shape, and no particles or impurities were detected, suggesting that Ce was only doped into the CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH matrix. Clear lattice stripes were seen from the high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) images (inset of Figure [1b,d\)](#page-3-0), which can be ascribed to the (012) plane of NiFe– LDH with a crystallographic spacing of 0.25 nm. Corresponding EDX elemental profiles (Figure [1e,f\)](#page-3-0) also demonstrate the evenly dispersed Ni, Fe, O, and Ce throughout the nanosheets, again verifying the homogeneous doping of Ce in the lattice. An ICP-OES measurement was performed in order to quantify the particular amount of Ni, Fe, and Ce in these samples (Table S1, Supporting Information), demonstrating the successful Ce doping and CeO2 modification.

The phase of the synthesized samples was determined by Xray diffractometry (XRD). The XRD spectra of the synthesized samples, with the amount of Ce doping in the preparation of CC@NiFe–LDH as a variable, are shown in Figure [1c.](#page-3-0) The peaks at 11.4°, 22.97°, 34.43°, 38.99°, 59.94°, and 61.26° correspond

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Scheme 1.** Schematic illustration of the synthetic procedures for CC@NiFe-LDH, CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH, CC@NiFe-LDH/CeO $_2$ -15 and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO $_2$ -15 nanosheet arrays. (The electrodeposition solution was a mixture of NaCl and Ce(NO $_3$ ) $_3$ ·6H $_2$ O, and the electrodes were platinum sheet electrode, Ag/AgCl electrode, and working electrode respectively).

to the (003), (006), (012), (015), (110), and (113) planes, respectively, of the NiFe–LDH (JCPDS card No. 40–0215). The broad peaks at 24.3° and 43.5° belong to the carbon cloth substrate. CC@NiFeCe(1%)-LDH (33.91°), CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH (33.61°) and CC@NiFeCe(5%)-LDH (34.33°) are shifted compared to the peak of 34.06° corresponding to the (012) plane of CC@NiFe–LDH, confirming the successful Ce incorporation into the NiFe LDH structure. [24] The XRD of CC@NiFe–LDH/CeO<sub>2</sub>-15 and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO<sub>2</sub>-15 nanosheets also matches the PDF card of NiFe–LDH (Figures S9 and S10, Supporting Information).

#### 2.2. Electrocatalytic HMFOR Performance

Obtaining high-value compounds at the anode is more possible through using HMFOR rather than OER, which also lowers the energy consumption of producing hydrogen by water electrolysis.<sup>[25]</sup> Therefore, we tested the electrochemical performance of self-supported CC@LDHs using a standard three-electrode system in electrolytes of 1.0  $\upmu$  KOH and 1.0  $\upmu$ KOH + 50 mm HMF, respectively. The HMFOR activity of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH was found to be superior, as evidenced by a comparison of the LSV curves of this sample with those of other synthetic samples in 1.0 M KOH + 50 mM HMF (Figure 2a). Specifically, at 1.42 V (versus RHE), CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH exhibited higher current density (31.6 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) than CC@NiFe-LDH (20.21 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), CC@NiFeCe(1%)-LDH (27.66 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) and CC@NiFeCe(5%)-LDH (18.14 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) (Figure S11, Supporting Information). Furthermore, in order to identify any changes in the organic adsorbent content inside the inner Helmholtz layer of the samples with varying levels of Ce doping, the open-circuit potential (OCP) was evaluated. [26] In comparison to CC@NiFe-LDH (0.459 V), CC@NiFeCe(1%)-LDH (0.539 V), and CC@NiFeCe(5%)-LDH (0.523 V), the OCP change of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH (0.598 V) was more noticeable upon injection of 50 mM HMF. The findings showed that more HMF molecules were adsorbed by the inner Helmholtz layer of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH (Figure S12, Supporting Information). Following the addition of HMF, the OCP of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH dropped more quickly, indicating that the presence of Ce promotes the dynamic adsorption of HMF. LSV comparison of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH with the optimal sample under the effect of CeO<sub>2</sub> modification (CC@NiFe-LDH/CeO<sub>2</sub>-15 (Figure \$13, Supporting Information) and with the optimal sample under the effect of CeO2 modification after Ce doping (CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO2-15) (Figure S14, Supporting Information) reveals that the best performance was also found for the CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH (Figure 2b). It also demonstrates that HMFOR could suppress the anodic reaction of water splitting and that the presence of HMF can achieve a low-potential reaction that yields higher-value products. To get a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH required a potential of 1.39  $V_{RHE}$ , which was smaller than that of OER (1.46 V) (Figure 2c). Furthermore, the LSV curves in Figure 2a,b,c are obtained by back-scanning, so a reduction peak will appear, as expressed with a current less than 0 on the LSV curves, which has also been reported in previous literature.[27] In order to study the catalytic kinetics of HMFOR, the Tafel plots of the catalysts were obtained by steady-state timed current method.[28] The logarithmic value of the steady state current density  $(j_{ss})$ was plotted as the horizontal coordinate and the corresponding overpotential was plotted as the vertical coordinate, and the Tafel plots derived from the corresponding polarization curves of the catalysts are shown in Figure 2d. Compared to CC@NiFe-LDH (162.2 mV dec-1), CC@NiFe-LDH/CeO<sub>2</sub>-15 (136.9 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ) and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO<sub>2</sub>-15 (117.1 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH exhibited a lower Tafel slope (78.11 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), suggesting the fastest HMFOR kinetics.

By measuring the electrochemical double layer capacitance ( $C_{\rm dl}$ ) in the non-Faraday region at various scan rates (20, 40, 60, 80, and 100 mV s<sup>-1</sup>) and graphing the scan rate against the

<span id="page-3-0"></span>Figure 1. a) SEM images of the CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH. b) TEM image and HRTEM image (inset) of the CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH. c) XRD patterns of CC@NiFe-LDH, CC@NiFeCe(1%)-LDH, CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH and CC@NiFeCe(5%)-LDH. d) The corresponding inter-planar spacing. e) The EDS spectrum of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH and the relative content of three metal elements. f) The EDS mapping of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH containing Ni, Fe, O, and Ce.

current density, it was determined that the  $C_{\rm dl}$  value of CC@NiFe-LDH, CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH, CC@NiFe-LDH/CeO<sub>2</sub>-15, and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO<sub>2</sub>-15 are determined as 2.92, 4.09, 1.66, and 1.16 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively (Figure 2e; Figure S15, Supporting Information). These results indicated that the active sites on the surface of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH were more accessible. Compared with the HMFOR process, the  $C_{\rm dl}$  values of CC@NiFe-LDH and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH in the OER process were 2.82 and 3.67 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively, indicating the superior performance of HMFOR (Figures S16a and S17, Supporting Information). The electrochemically active surface areas (ECSAs) of CC@NiFe-LDH, CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH, CC@NiFe-LDH/CeO<sub>2</sub>-15, and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO<sub>2</sub>-15 were further evaluated to compare specific catalytic activities. Considering an ideal flat

surface with a specific capacitance of 0.04 mF cm $^{-2}$ , the ECSA of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH (102.25 cm $^{-2}$  ECSA) is greater than CC@NiFe-LDH (73 cm $^{-2}$  ECSA), CC@NiFe-LDH/CeO $_2$ -15 (41.5 cm $^{-2}$  ECSA) and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO $_2$ -15 (29 cm $^{-2}$  ECSA). In conclusion, CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH was included as the main research object in this work. CC@NiFe-LDH, CC@NiFe-LDH/CeO $_2$ -15 and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO $_2$ -15 were used as contrast sample.

Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) tests were performed on CC@NiFe-LDH, CC@NiFe-LDH/CeO<sub>2</sub>-15, CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO<sub>2</sub>-15 and the optimal sample CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH in 1.0 м KOH + 50 mм HMF. By tying together electron transport, mass transfer, and interfacial kinetics during electrochemical reactions at various potentials, it may be utilized to illuminate the connection between

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a) LSV curves of CC@NiFe–LDH, CC@NiFeCe(1%)-LDH, CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH, CC@NiFeCe(5%)-LDH for HMFOR. b) LSV curves of CC@NiFe–LDH, CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH, CC@NiFe–LDH/CeO2-15 and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO2-15 for HMFOR. c) LSV curves of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH for HMFOR/OER. d) Tafel slopes of the CC@NiFe–LDH, CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH, CC@NiFe–LDH/CeO2-15 and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO2-15. e) Cdl values of CC@NiFe–LDH, CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH, CC@NiFe–LDH/CeO2-15 and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO2- 15 for HMFOR. f) EIS spectra of CC@NiFe–LDH and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH in 1.0 M KOH + 50 mm HMF.

structure and activity.[\[30\]](#page-13-0) The non-uniform charge distribution is linked to electrochemical reactions (OER/HMFOR) in the low-frequency range (10<sup>−</sup>2–101 Hz), whereas oxidation inside the electrode is linked to the high-frequency range (101– 105 Hz).[\[31\]](#page-13-0) To investigate the effect of Ce-doping on the behavior of the electrode-electrolyte interface during HMFOR, EIS and Bode spectroscopy were carried out for CC@NiFe–LDH and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH. The diameter of the Nyquist semicircle refers to the charge transfer resistance (*R*ct) of the catalyst at the catalyst/electrolyte interface during the HMFOR. In other words, CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH exhibits a lower Rct than CC@NiFe– LDH, suggesting an enhanced capacity to transfer electrons and, consequently, an improved HMFOR electrocatalytic efficacy in HMFOR. This observation indicates that the catalyst and electrolyte interfacial resistance is lowered by the effective doping of Ce via facilitating the charge transfer during HMFOR (Figure 2f). The reaction behavior of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH in different electrolyte solutions was analyzed by the Operando-EIS method which was utilized to compare CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH's OER and HMFOR performance. Figures S18 and S19 (Supporting Information) display the Bode plots and related Nyquist plots of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH at various potentials when the electrolyte is 1.0 m KOH. The OER-related interfacial charge transfer starts around 1.45 *V*RHE, based on the LSV images (Figure S16b, Supporting Information). The Nyquist plots and corresponding Bode plots of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH at different potentials are shown in **Figure 3**[b,d,](#page-5-0) where the electrolyte is

1.0 m KOH + 50 mm HMF. In this potential range, as the potential increases from 1.00 *V*RHE to 1.20 *V*RHE, no significant bending phase angle can be seen in the bode diagram for any interfacial charge transfer.[\[32\]](#page-13-0) When the potential increases to 1.30 *V*RHE, the Nyquist semicircle and arch phase angle appear in the low-frequency region. This is consistent with the finding that the HMFOR onset current appears in the potential range of 1.30 VRHE, suggesting that the HMFOR-related interfacial charge transfer starts at 1.30 *V*RHE. OER does not occur when the potential rises from 1.30 to 1.45 *V*RHE, while the interfacial charge transfer linked to HMFOR becomes more enhanced as the potential rises. CC@NiFe–LDH (Figure [3a,c\)](#page-5-0), CC@NiFe– LDH/CeO2-15 and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO2-15 (Figure S20, Supporting Information) show similar trends. CC@NiFe–LDH and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH likewise had a reduction in peak phase angles at varying potentials; they went from 32.2 and 31.8° to 8.8 and 8.6° , respectively. The commencement of OER was attributed to the notable reduction in peak phase angle.[\[33\]](#page-14-0) The optimal electron-filled state that is produced by doping Ce into CC@NiFe–LDH contributes significantly to the outstanding HMFOR activity by increasing the rate of charge transfer between the catalytic site and the oxygen-containing adsorbate.

Because the HMF molecule contains both hydroxyl and aldehyde groups, there are two main pathways for the oxidation of HMF to FDCA, which are the preferential oxidation of hydroxyl groups and the preferential oxidation of aldehyde groups (**Figure 4**[a\)](#page-6-0).[\[3b\]](#page-13-0) Pathway 1 is the preferential oxidation of HMF

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 3.** Operando Nyquist plots of CC@NiFe–LDH a) and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH b) in 1.0 m KOH + 50 mm HMF. Bode plots of CC@NiFe–LDH c) and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH d) in 1.0 M KOH+ 50 mm HMF.

to DFF followed by further oxidation to FFCA. Pathway 2 is the preferential oxidation of HMF to HMFCA followed by oxidation to FFCA. HMF is oxidized to produce the initial intermediates of both routes, HMFCA and DFF, which are then further oxidized to produce the common intermediate FFCA. Finally, FFCA was used as a raw material to obtain FDCA by deep oxidation at higher potentials. The HMFOR reaction over CC@NiFeCe(3%)- LDH was measured by constant potential electrolysis in 8 mL 1 m KOH + 10 mm HMF electrolyte solution at 1.44 *V*RHE, and the resulting electrolytes were collected periodically according to Coulomb amounts to quantify HMF, HMFCA, DFF, FFCA and FDCA. During the HMFOR process, changes in reactants and products were identified using HPLC. The HMF, DFF, HMFCA, FFCA, and FDCA standard peak area concentration curves were determined (Figures S21 and S22, Supporting Information). Owing to the six electron transfers involved in the oxidation of HMF to FDCA, 8 × 10<sup>−</sup><sup>5</sup> mol HMF must theoretically be converted with a charge of 46.3C. Based on the HPLC generated by constant potential electrolysis at 1.44 *V*RHE in an alkaline environment, the peak intensity of FDCA increased continuously whereas the peak intensity of HMF gradually declined as the charge grew from 0 to 46.3C (Figure [4b\)](#page-6-0). The increasing depletion of the HMF caused the current density to gradually dropped as the charge increased (Figure S23, Supporting Information). A higher yield of HMFCA was detected during HMFOR while DFF was almost undetected, indicating that Pathway 1 predominates in a very alkaline environment and that the HMFCA pathway is the primary source of HMFOR.

In the HMFOR process, the HMF conversion (95.73%), FDCA yield (93.31%) and Faraday efficiency (99.47%) of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH were higher than those of CC@NiFe– LDH, CC@NiFe–LDH/CeO2-15 and CC@NiFeCe(3%)- LDH/CeO2-15, and the Ce doping could accelerate the further oxidation of HMFCA (Figure [4c\)](#page-6-0). To identify variations in the amount of organic adsorbent in the inner Helmholtz layer, the OCP of the aforementioned samples was also evaluated.[\[26,34\]](#page-13-0) The OCP change of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH (0.598 V) was more noticeable when 50 mm HMF was administered than the changes of CC@NiFe–LDH (0.459 V), CC@NiFe–LDH/CeO2-15 (0.529 V), and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO2-15 (0.533 V). demonstrating that more HMF molecules were adsorbed by the inner Helmholtz layer of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH (Figure S24, Supporting Information). In comparison to some reported HMFOR catalysts, the HMFOR performance of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH in our work is quite competitive, as illustrated in Table S2 (Supporting Information). In addition, CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH was tested for its electrolytic cycling performance, as follows: the prepared CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH was subjected to electrolysis experiments in 8 mL of 1 m KOH + 10 mm HMF solution, and the results obtained were the results of the first electrolytic cycling of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH. After that, the above samples were rinsed and dried, and then continued in the reconfigured 8 mL 1 m KOH + 10 mm HMF solution for electrolysis cycle, the results obtained were the results of the second electrolysis cycle of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH, and so on until the completion of five electrolysis cycles. CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH maintained high HMF conversion (95.34%), FDCA yield (85.38%), and Faraday efficiency (98.88%) after five consecutive electrochemical cycles (Figure [4d\)](#page-6-0). The LSV curve of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH was tested after stabilizing in 1 m KOH + 50 mm HMF solution for 20 CV cycles. Then 2000 CV cycles were performed. After the completion of the test, the CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH was rinsed with deionized water and dried. The LSV curve was tested again after being stabilized by 20 CV sweeps in a newly configured 1 m KOH

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 4.** a) Two possible pathways of HMF oxidation to FDCA. b) HPLC traces of electrolysis of HMF oxidation catalyzed by CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH at 1.44 *V*RHE in 8 mL, 1.0 m KOH with 10 mm HMF. c) The HMF conversion, FDCA yield, and Faradaic efficiency at different potentials for CC@NiFe– LDH (A), CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH (B), CC@NiFe–LDH/CeO2-15 (C) and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO2-15 (D). d) The HMF conversion, FDCA yield, and Faradaic efficiency on CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH under five successive electrolysis cycles. e) HPLC traces of the electrolyte without electrolysis.

+ 50 mm HMF solution and compared with the LSV curve obtained prior to the 2000 CV cycle test. The excellent stability can also be demonstrated by the cycle test in Figure S25 (Supporting Information), where only negligible potential changes can be detected after 2000 cycles. Furthermore, the transformations of different components within the solution were investigated in non-electrolytic circumstances. Figure 4e shows the HPLC results of the unelectrolyzed solution at different times and the concentration of each substance. There was still enough HMF in the solution at 6.5 h (corresponding to 46.3C in the instance of constant potential electrolysis at 1.44 *V*RHE). The HMF conversion without electrolysis is about 46%. It can be concluded that electrolysis, rather than spontaneous oxidation, was primarily responsible for the conversion of HMF to FDCA. Because in the case of electrolysis at constant potential at 1.44 *V*RHE, there was essentially no HMF in solution after 6.5 h (corresponding to 46.3C for passage charge). More thorough research was done on the HMFOR performance of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH in alkaline circumstances at a potential of 1.5 *V*RHE (Figure S26, Supporting Information). Due to competitive OER, the HMF conversion, FDCA yield, and Faraday efficiency reduced with increasing potential to 87.70%, 43.70%, and 45.95%, respectively. The standard deviation for conversion, product yield, and Faraday efficiency values of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH after five cycles were calculated and the values were 0.58, 6.97, and 1.71 respectively. SEM, TEM, ICP, and XRD were used to analyze the samples

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 5.** XPS spectra of the Ni 2p a), Fe 2p b) O 1s c), and Ce 3d d) for CC@NiFe–LDH, CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH, CC@NiFe–LDH/CeO2-15 and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO2-15.

in order to assess the stability of its composition, morphology, and structure. The SEM (Figures S27 and S28, Supporting Information) and TEM (Figures S29–S32, Supporting Information) results showed that the nanosheet arrays remained homogeneous after the reaction, suggesting that the microstructure of the material remained stable. The ICP results showed little change in the elemental content of the samples before and after the reaction (Table S3, Supporting Information). The XRD patterns of samples (Figure S33, Supporting Information) did not show significant changes after the HMFOR test, illustrating the excellent stability of these samples.

#### **2.3. Atomic Structure and Electronic Interaction**

Compared with CC@NiFe–LDH, the measured X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH has an additional weak Ce peak (Figure S34, Supporting Information), suggesting that Ce has been successfully doped into CC@NiFe– LDH. **Figure 5**a and Table S4 (Supporting Information) show the Ni 2p spectra of CC@NiFe–LDH, in which two peaks and two satellite peaks can be distinguished. The two peaks at 856.28 and 873.82 eV correspond to Ni 2p3/2 and Ni 2p1/2 of Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, respectively, and the two satellite peaks are at 862.1 and 880.0 eV.[\[23\]](#page-13-0) In CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH, the Ni 2p3/2 and Ni 2p1/2 peaks appear to migrate by 1.1 eV toward the higher binding energies in comparison to CC@NiFe–LDH. A shift of 0.9 eV is also observed toward the higher binding energies in the Ni 2p3/2 peaks in CC@NiFe–LDH/CeO2-15. The 2p3/2 and 2p1/2 peaks of Ni in CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO2-15 also show small shifts toward higher electron energy levels. The peaks located near 857.8 and 875.5 eV can be attributed to Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> (green color). The higher percentage of Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> on the surfaces of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH, CC@NiFe–LDH/CeO2-15, and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO2-15 compared to CC@NiFe–LDH suggests that more Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> active sites are formed in the latter three catalysts. Two wide peaks were de-convoluted at 713.15 and 725.77 eV in the Fe 2p spectra of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH, CC@NiFe–LDH/CeO2-15, and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO2-15. These are the two spin-orbit doublet peaks of Fe 2p3/2 and Fe 2p1/2, respectively, indicating the presence of Fe3<sup>+</sup> (Figure 5b).[\[15a\]](#page-13-0) Notably, upon introduction of Ce into CC@NiFe–LDH (i.e., formation of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH, CC@NiFe–LDH/CeO2-15 and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO2-15), all Ni 2p3/2, Ni 2p1/2, Fe 2p3/2, and Fe 2p1/2 underwent positive shifts, which suggests the presence of synergistic electronic interactions among Ni, Fe, and Ce cations (Figures S35 and S36, Supporting Information).[\[35\]](#page-14-0) Figure 5c compares the O 1s nuclear level spectra of the four samples. The results show that O 1s is deconvoluted into three characteristic species at 529.62, 532.48, and 531.25 eV, respectively, corresponding to bonding between oxygen and metal (M–O), hydroxyl species (OH) adsorbed on the surface by water molecules, and oxygen ligand (unsaturated oxygen). It is well known that oxygen defects exist in NiFe–LDH.[\[35,36\]](#page-14-0) The large number of oxygen

www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.advenergymat.de

vacancies in the prepared CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH, CC@NiFeLDH/CeO<sub>2</sub>-15, and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO<sub>2</sub>-15 nanosheets was confirmed by the results of O 1s following the introduction of Ce. These oxygen defects are important in affecting the binding strength of the intermediates generated during the electrocatalytic process.<sup>[37]</sup>

To further illustrate the role of Ce in CC@NiFe-LDH, the Ce 3d spectra of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH, CC@NiFe-LDH/CeO<sub>2</sub>-15 and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO<sub>2</sub>-15 are analysed and shown in Figure 5d. The  $Ce^{3+}$  peaks can be divided into two  $Ce\ 3d_{5/2}$ peaks (green) and two Ce 3d<sub>3/2</sub> peaks (blue), and the Ce<sup>4+</sup> peaks can be divided into three Ce 3d<sub>5/2</sub> peaks (red) and three Ce 3d<sub>3/2</sub> peaks (purple).<sup>[38]</sup> The results showed that the content of Ce<sup>4+</sup> species in CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH, CC@NiFe-LDH/CeO<sub>2</sub>-15, and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO2-15 is much lower than the that of Ce<sup>3+</sup> species, which is manifested in the weakened peak intensities of the Ce<sup>4+</sup> peaks. Therefore, the introduced Ce atoms, whether doped by hydrothermal method as a homogeneous dopant or deposited by electrodeposition method as interfacial heteroconjugates, act as electron acceptor sites. Unlike Ni<sup>2+</sup> and Fe<sup>3+</sup>, the electron-deficient d-orbitals of Ce<sup>3+</sup> allow the transfer of lone-pair electrons to Ce<sup>3+</sup>, which ultimately alters the electronic structure of the metal ions through strong electronic interactions and affects the HMFOR activity of CC@NiFe-LDH. The electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectra (Figure S37, Supporting Information) show that the relative oxygen vacancy content of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH is higher than that of CC@NiFe-LDH, CC@NiFe-LDH/CeO<sub>2</sub>-15, and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO<sub>2</sub>-15, which suggests that the doping of Ce produces more oxygen vacancies. In addition, XPS tests are performed on samples and the results show little variation in the XPS spectra (Figure \$38, Supporting Information). In other words, CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH has good structural and property stability.

X-ray absorption near-edge spectroscopy (XANES) and extended X-ray fine structure spectroscopy (EXAFS) measurements were carried out to better confirm the valence and local coordinated environments of the atoms of CC@NiFe-LDH, CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH, CC@NiFe-LDH/CeO2-15 and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO<sub>2</sub>-15.[17a,39] XANES of the four samples and the standard sample are similar. Compared to Ni foil, the Ni K-edge XANES spectra are more similar to NiO, but the prominent edge features and the intensity of the white line peaks change (Figure 6a). [40] NiO exhibits the strongest intensity of the prominent edge peaks, and a decrease in the intensity of the leading edge peaks occurs for all four samples (Figure 6a). The Fe K-edge XANES spectra are more similar to Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> than Fe foil, with weaker edge fronts indicating a strongly symmetric octahedral structure (Figure 6b). The increase in the intensity of the white line peaks of the Ni and Fe K-edge XANES spectra is attributed to the octahedral structure, as well as an increase in the number of unoccupied d states in the ions. In addition, the shift to higher energies in the Ni and Fe K-edge XANES spectra of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH, CC@NiFe-LDH/CeO2-15 and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO2-15 suggests that Ni, and Fe have lost electrons (Figure 6a,b).[41] Ce K-edge XANES spectra are shown in Figure 6c, where the two peaks in CeO<sub>2</sub> are assigned to peaks ranging from Ce  $2p^{3/2}$  to  $4f_15d_1$  and  $4f_05d_1$  final state electronic transitions. The Ce L<sub>3</sub>-edge XANES spectra in the doped samples show significant changes in the edge positions and white

line intensity features. The CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH, CC@NiFeLDH/CeO $_2$ -15 and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO $_2$ -15 white line intensities and edge energy positions are shifted toward lower energies compared to CeO $_2$ , which indicates that Ce is mainly present in the form of Ce $^{3+}$ , in agreement with the findings of the XPS results.

The EXAFS analyses of the Ni and Fe K-edge XAS spectra are shown in Figure 7a-d, and the fitting results are shown in Tables S5 and S6 (Supporting Information). The EXAFS analyses of the Ce L<sub>3</sub>-edge XAS spectra are shown in Figure 7e,f, and the fitting results are shown in Table S7 (Supporting Information). The K-space images of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH, CC@NiFe-LDH/CeO2-15, and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO2-15 do not show any significant change compared to CC@NiFe-LDH, which suggests that all of them have similar octahedral structures, which is in agreement with the previous analyses.[42] In addition, the vibrational amplitudes of Ni and Fe K-space are different, suggesting that their coordination environments are different. The K-space of Ce shows the same pattern. After fitting the R-space, it can be noted that the positions of CC@NiFe-LDH, CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH, CC@NiFe-LDH/CeO2-15 and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO2-15 in the Rspace are basically the same with respect to NiO and Fe<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>, suggesting the same valence state.<sup>[43]</sup> The R-space of Ce shows the same pattern. In addition, NiOOH was used as the reactive active site.[44] The fitting of the R-space of Ni revealed that the coordination numbers of CC@NiFe-LDH, CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH, CC@NiFe-LDH/CeO2-15 and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO2-15 were significantly decreased, which indicated that more oxygen vacancy defects and metal vacancy defects existed in the samples. In addition, the results of the wavelet transform validate the above analysis (Figures \$39-\$41, Supporting Information). In addition, EXAFS analysis of Ni, Fe, and Ce of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH after the reaction was carried out (Tables S8-S10, Supporting Information). It was found that there was little change before and after the reaction, indicating the excellent stability of the sample (Figure \$42, Supporting Information).

The reaction mechanism was investigated using density-functional theory in detail (DFT) to further uncover the modification promotion of CC@NiFe-LDH by Ce doping, CeO<sub>2</sub> modification, and the synergistic effect of both in HMFOR.<sup>[6b]</sup> NiFe-LDH (012) and CeO<sub>2</sub> (111) crystal faces were used as computational models. In order to clarify the effect of Ce on the HMFOR catalysis of CC@NiFe-LDH, the charge density changes of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH, CC@NiFe-LDH/CeO<sub>2</sub>-15, and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO<sub>2</sub>-15 under Ce doping, CeO<sub>2</sub> modification, and synergistic interaction of the two were calculated.

#### 2.4. Density Functional Theory Calculations

The optimised structural models of CC@NiFe-LDH, CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH, CC@NiFe-LDH/CeO<sub>2</sub>-15 and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO<sub>2</sub>-15 are shown in **Figure 8a**–d, respectively. In order to investigate the electronic interactions of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH, the differential charge density was calculated. Figure 8e illustrates a distinct electron flow from Ni, Fe, to Ce, which is in line with the XPS findings (Figure 5a–d)

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**Figure 6.** XANES spectra of the as-synthesized LDHs for a) Ni K-edge, b) Fe K-edge, and c) Ce L3-edge.

and the enhanced HMFOR performance. The electronic density of states (DOS) of CC@NiFe–LDH, CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH, CC@NiFe–LDH/CeO2-15 and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO2-15 are shown in Figure [8f](#page-11-0) and Figure S43 (Supporting Information). Both possess electronic states that are continuous across the Fermi level, evidence that their electron transport capacities are similar to those of metals, and their metallic composition facilitates quick electron transfer.[\[45\]](#page-14-0) In addition, HMF and OH\* have different adsorption configurations on CC@NiFe– LDH, CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH, CC@NiFe–LDH/CeO2-15 and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO2-15 as shown in Figures S44 and S45 (Supporting Information). As shown in Figure [8g,](#page-11-0) the bonding strengths of HMF and OH\* to CC@NiFe–LDH are −1.03 and −1.23 eV, respectively, while the Ce doping enhances the bonding strengths of HMF and OH\* on CC@NiFeCe(3%)- LDH to −1.56 and −1.78 eV, and the bonding strengths of CeO2-modified CC@NiFe–LDH/CeO2-15 to −1.22 and −1.49 eV. The enhancement of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO2-15 bond strength was −1.77 and −1.93 eV for the synergistic effect of the two. Given that the HMFOR activity of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH was higher than that of the other three comparative samples (Figure [2b\)](#page-4-0), it can be speculated that the excessive HMF and OH\* adsorption on the catalysts' surface is not always advantageous to HMFOR. The efficient adsorption of HMF and OH\* on the heterogeneous surface was guaranteed by the modest adsorption energy, which also encouraged the desorption from the heterogeneous surface.

The free energy step diagram indicates that in the presence of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH, the HMFOR proceeds via the HMFCA pathway with a smaller Gibbs free energy change (ΔG) with respect to the DFF pathway, which is in agreement with the HPLC results (Figure S46, Supporting Information).[\[46\]](#page-14-0) Figure [8h](#page-11-0) depicts the precise reaction mechanism of HMFOR. The processes involved in converting HMF to HMFCA are

<span id="page-10-0"></span>**Figure 7.** EXANES spectra of samples. The k3-weighted Fourier transform (FT) EXAFS spectra on a,b) Ni K edge, c,d) Fe K edge and e,f) Ce L3 edge.

recognized as the rate-determining step (RDS) of CC@NiFe– LDH, with a maximum energy shift of 1.11 eV. After doping Ce or modifying with CeO2, the RDS over CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH and CC@NiFe–LDH/CeO2-15 changed from HMF→HMFCA to FFCA→FDCA with RDS energy changes of 0.77 and 0.93 eV, respectively. The RDS of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO2-15 changed from HMF→HMFCA to HMFCA→FFCA with RDS energy changes of 0.78 eV. These results indicated that the doping of Ce or the modification of CeO2 greatly reduced the Gibbs free energy of RDS, improved the reaction kinetics of HMF to generate FDCA, and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH had the best effect in enhancing HMFOR. Therefore, the results of DFT theoretical calculations and various experimental results confirmed the high efficiency of the CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH catalyst and elucidated the reaction pathway for the selective oxidation of HMF to FDCA.

## **3. Conclusion**

In summary, in this work, the effects of Ce-doping (i.e., CC@NiFeCe-LDH), CeO2-modification (i.e., CC@NiFe– LDH/CeO2), and their synergism (i.e., CC@NiFeCe-LDH/CeO2) on the HMFOR activities of CC@NiFe–LDH were systemically investigated. It was found that through Ce doping and CeO2 modification, the electronic structure and coordination chemistry of CC@NiFe–LDH changed greatly, which improved the intrinsic electrocatalytic activity and enhanced the performance of HMFOR in alkaline electrolyte. It is worth noting that the

<span id="page-11-0"></span>**Figure 8.** The DFT optimized structures of the CC@NiFe–LDH a) CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH b) CC@NiFe–LDH/CeO2-15 c) and CC@NiFeCe(3%)- LDH/CeO2-15 d). e) The charge density difference plot at CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH interface, the yellow area represents electron deficiency and the green area represents electron enrichment. f) Density of states (DOS) of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH. g) HMF and OH\* adsorption free energy (A = CC@NiFe– LDH, B = CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH, C = CC@NiFe–LDH/CeO2-15, D = CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO2-15). h) Free energies of HMFOR step on CC@NiFe– LDH, CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH, CC@NiFe–LDH/CeO2-15 and CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO2-15, and adsorption configurations of HMFOR intermediates on CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH.

CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH with only doped Ce shows the best electrocatalytic activity, reaching 95.73% of HMF conversion, 93.31% of FDCA yield, and 99.47% of Faraday efficiency. XAFS analysis and DFT calculations show that Ce doping tunes the electronic structure and reduces the energy barrier of RDS, which is the key to catalytic performance enhancement. This work provides light on the surface engineering and atomic-scale methods for doping heteroatoms or depositing nanoparticles to increase the redox reactivity of LDHs, which is definitely helpful for improving the physicochemical properties of LDHs to boost their catalytic activity.

## **4. Experimental Section**

*Materials*: All chemicals and materials are used as is without any further processing. During the experiment, deionized water generated by an ultra-pure purification system was used. Acetone [C3H6O, AR] was purchased from Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co., Ltd. Hydrochloric acid [HCl, GR] was purchased from Beijing Tongguang Fine Chemical Co., Ltd. Nickel(II) nitrate hexahydrate [Ni(NO3)2·6H2O AR], sodium chloride [NaCl, AR] and urea [CO(NH2)2, AR] were purchased from Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co., Ltd. Iron(III) nitrate nine hydrate [Fe(NO3)3·9H2O ≥ 98.5%] was purchased from Bioengineering (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Cerium nitrates hexahydrate [Ce(NO3)3·6H2O, 99.95%] was purchased from Shanghai Aladdin Biological Technology Co., Ltd. Ammonium fluoride (NH4F, 98.0%) was purchased from Alfa Aesar. Carbon cloth (HCP331 N) was purchased from Beijing Tianmei Hechuang Technology Co., Ltd. 5-hydroxymethylfurfural [HMF, 99.54%], furan-2,5 dicarbaldehyde [DFF, 98%] were purchased from Ark Pharma Scientific Co., Ltd. 5-hydroxymethyl-2-furancarboxylic acid [HMFCA, 98%], 5-formyl-2-furancarboxylic acid [FFCA, *>*98%], 2,5-furandicarboxylic acid [FDCA, 98%] were purchased from Shanghai Aladdin Bio-Chem Technology Co., Ltd.

*Synthesis of CC@NiFeCe(3%)-Layered Double Hydroxide (LDH)*: First, a clean piece of carbon cloth (2 × 4 cm2) was taken and sonicated with acetone, deionized water, and ethanol for 15 min, respectively, and then transferred to a vacuum drying oven overnight to finally obtain the pretreated carbon cloth. The samples were prepared by hydrothermal method. 1.5 mmol (0. 4362 g) Ni(NO3)2·6H2O, 0.5 mmol (0. 2020 g) Fe(NO3)3·9H2O, 10 mmol (0.6006 g) urea, 5 mmol (0.1852 g) NH4F were dispersed into 35 ml of deionized water to obtain a clear solution. The solution was then transferred to a 50 mL polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) reactor together with the pretreated CC and heated at 120 °C for 8 h. To eventually obtain CC@NiFe–LDH, the samples were cooled to room temperature, then repeatedly cleaned with deionized water, and dried for an entire night in a vacuum drying oven. 0.0087 g (0.02 mmol), 0.0261 g

16146840, 2024,

. 38. Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ænm.202401449 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0501/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms

s-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons I

www.advancedsciencenews.com

(0.06 mmol) and 0.0434 g (0.1 mmol) of  $Ce(NO_3)_3 \cdot 6H_2O$  were added in the same way as above to obtain CC@NiFeCe-LDH with doping amounts of 1%, 3% and 5% (%Ce refers to the molar percentage of Ce to the total molar amount of Ni(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O and Fe(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>3</sub>·9H<sub>2</sub>O). The above samples were named as CC@NiFeCe(1%)-LDH, CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH, CC@NiFeCe(5%)-LDH.

Synthesis of CC@NiFe-LDH/CeO2-15: CC@NiFe-LDH/CeO2 with different deposition times (10 min, 15 min, and 20 min) were prepared by electrodeposition. The electrolyte was 0.2893 g Ce(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>3</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O, 0.1948 g NaCl and 100 mL deionized water. Ag/AgCl served as the reference electrode, platinum sheet served as the counter electrode, and CC@NiFe-LDH served as the working electrode. The deposition current density was 0.5 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at 60 °C, and the electrodeposited electrodes were placed in a vacuum drying oven at 60 °C for drying. The above samples were named as CC@NiFe-LDH/CeO<sub>2</sub>-10, CC@NiFe-LDH/CeO<sub>2</sub>-15, CC@NiFe-LDH/CeO2-20.

CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO2-15: First, of NiFeCe(3%)-LDH was synthesized by a hydrothermal method, and then CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO2 with different deposition times (10 min, 15 min, and 20 min) were prepared by the electrodeposition method described above. For pairwise comparison, this experiment was carried out on the basis of electrodeposition of optimally doped sample CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH. The samples mentioned above were named as CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO<sub>2</sub>-10, CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO<sub>2</sub>-15, CC@NiFeCe(3%)-LDH/CeO2-20.

Characterization: Transmission electron microscopy (TEM, JEM-2200FS, Japan) and field emission scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM, Hitachi SU8010, Japan) were used to analyze the morphology and microstructure of the materials. An X-ray diffractometer (XRD, Bruker D8 Advance diffractometer, Cu K $\alpha$ 1:40 kV, 40 mA,  $\lambda = 1.5406$  Å) with a scanning speed and  $2\theta$  range calibrated to 0.1 steps per second,  $10-80^{\circ}$  was used to determine the phase composition. Data on the elements included in the composites were gathered using an X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) with a Thermo Scientific ESCALAB 250Xi. The elemental content was accurately characterized by inductively coupled plasma emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES, Agilent 5110 ICP-OES).

Electrochemical Measurements: Every electrochemical experiment was conducted at room temperature using a CHI-660D electrochemical workstation (CHI Instrument, Shanghai, China) set up in a standard threeelectrode cell configuration. The three electrodes were set up as follows: a working electrode (carbon cloth electrode, effective geometric area: 1 cm×1 cm), a counter electrode (graphite rod), and a reference electrode (Hg/HgO). For the OER test, 1 m KOH (pH = 14) and the HMFOR test, 1 м КОН + 50 mм HMF (pH = 14), respectively, were the working electrolytes. Using the Nernst equation, the observed potential (vs Hg/HgO) was expressed in relation to the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) scale:  $E(vs RHE) = E(vs Hg/HgO) + 0.098 + 0.0591 \times pH$ . Before testing, the samples had to be activated using cyclic voltammetry (CV) to create stable curves, with 90iR adjustment applied to each curve. At a scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup>, tests were conducted to produce linear scanning voltammetry (LSV) curves. The Tafel plots of the catalysts were obtained by steady state timed current method. Different potentials (1.10-1.40 V) with a potential interval of 0.05 V were selected to test the current density of the catalyst at different potentials. The current density at different potentials was used as the steady state current density  $(j_{ss})$ . The logarithmic value of steady state current density was plotted as the horizontal coordinate and the corresponding overpotential as the vertical coordinate. Tests using EIS were conducted in the frequency range of 100 kHz to 0.01 Hz at a specified voltage. Fitting the EIS data produced the charge transfer resistance  $(R_{ct})$  and system resistance  $(R_s)$ . To determine the double layer capacitance  $(C_{dl})$ , CV curves taken at non-Faraday intervals (100, 80, 60, 40, and 20 mV s<sup>-1</sup>) were utilized. To calculate the electrochemical surface area (ECSA), use this formula: Cdl/Cs is the same as ECSA. The specific capacitance in this instance is denoted by  $C_s$ , while the double-layer capacitance resulting from the CV cycle is denoted by  $C_{dl}$ .

HPLC Analysis: The final oxidation products (FDCA), intermediates (HMFCA, FFCA, HMF, and DFF), and substrates (HMF) were identified and quantified using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC; Agilent 1260 Infinity Series, USA) with an Agilent Zorbax SB-C18 (150 mm imes4.6 mm, 5 µm) column and an ultraviolet-visible (UV-vis) detector. The HPLC test method used in this paper is the HPLC test after mixing the HMF and each product together. After the completion of the test, the HPLC curves of 2, 4, 8, and 16 mm HMF, HMFCA, DFF, FFCA, and FDCA solutions were plotted and fitted to obtain the calibration curves, respectively. In a standard experiment, during constant potential electrolysis, 50 µL of electrolytes were taken at various coulombs (0, 10, 20, 30, 40, and 46.3C). The samples were then diluted to 5 mL with deionized water and HPLC analysis was performed. Under the analytical conditions, one sample of 10 µL was taken at a time. Mobile phases A and B were composed of chromatographic grade methanol and an aqueous solution containing 5 mм ammonium formate, respectively. A/B had a volume ratio of 3:7. 0.6 mL min<sup>-1</sup> of flow rate was used. Ten minutes were allotted to each separation, with the column temperature being kept at 30 °C. The UVvis detector had a wavelength of 265 nm. By using known concentrations of commercially available pure standard solutions of reactants, intermediates, and final products, the external standard method estimated that the separation time would be 10 min. This allowed for the identification and quantification of the products from the calibration curve. The stability of the electrolytic cycles of the samples identified by HPLC was examined using the same electrolytic tests conducted on the same samples.

The electrochemical oxidation reaction's theoretical charge was computed as follows:

$$6 \times 10 \text{ mM} \times 8 \text{ mL} \times 96485 \text{ C mol}^{-1} = 46.3 \text{ C}$$
 (1)

The calculation of HMF conversion, FDCA selectivity and Faradaic efficiency using Equations (2), (3) and (4), respectively.

HMF conversion 
$$(\%) = [(mole of consumed HMF)/$$

(mole of initial HMF] 
$$\times$$
 100 (2)

Product Yield (%) = [(mole of certain formed product)/

(mole of initial HMF)] 
$$\times$$
 100 (3)

Faradaic efficiency (%) = [(mole of formed FDCA)/(Charge/ $(6 \times F)$ )]

where F is the Faraday constant (96 485C  $\text{mol}^{-1}$ ).

Computational Methods: Based on the projection Enhanced wave (PAW) approach, the Vienna Atomic Number Simulation Package (VASP) is used for all spin polarization DFT computations. The electron-ion interaction is described in terms of the conventional PAW potential. The plane wave base set is utilized to increase the wave function's smooth crosssection with a 400 eV cutoff kinetic energy. A variant of the general gradient approximation (GGA), the Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof (PBE) parameterization function is used during the electron-to-electron exchange and correlated interactions. The slab model was used to the surface in order to study the mechanistic chemistry of the surface process. To ensure good separation of periodic images, a sufficiently large vacuum area15 is selected. In determining the properties of the surface, the bottom atoms are fixed in the body position during the geometric optimization process.

#### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

#### Acknowledgements

This work was supported by the National Key Research and Development Program of China (No. 2021YFB3500700) and the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 51802015) and Fundamental Research

<span id="page-13-0"></span>Funds for the Central Universities (No. FRF-EYIT-23-07). The authors also appreciate the beamlines BL14W1 at Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility (SSRF) for synchrotron radiation measurements.

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Author Contributions**

Y.-Y.Z. and G.-T.H. contributed equally to this work. X.-B.H. and G.W. conceived the research and designed the experiments. Y.-Y.Z., G.-T.H., Z.-S.H. and Z.-M.L. carried out the experiment and calculation. All authors analyzed the data. X.-B.H. and G.W. participated in drafting the paper and gave approval to the final version of the manuscript.

# **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

## **Keywords**

Ce-doping, CeO2 modification, electrocatalytic oxidation of 5 hydroxymethylfurfural, NiFe-layered double hydroxide

> Received: March 30, 2024 Revised: July 3, 2024 Published online: July 11, 2024

- [1] a) S.-W. Lee, S. Bae, D. Kim, H.-S. Lee, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2002202; b) L. Li, B. Wang, G. Zhang, G. Yang, T. Yang, S. Yang, S. Yang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 2001600.
- [2] Y. Zhao, M. Cai, J. Xian, Y. Sun, G. Li, *J. Mater. Chem. A.* **2021**, *9*, 20164.
- [3] a) P. Prabhu, Y. Wan, J.-M. Lee, *Matter.* **2020**, *3*, 1162; b) L. Guo, X. Zhang, L. Gan, L. Pan, C. Shi, Z.-F. Huang, X. Zhang, J.-J. Zou, *Adv. Sci.* **2023**, *10*, 2205540.
- [4] a) W.-J. Liu, L. Dang, Z. Xu, H.-Q. Yu, S. Jin, G. W. Huber, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 5533; b) S. Zhang, Y. Wang, S. Li, Z. Wang, H. Chen, L. Yi, X. Chen, Q. Yang, W. Xu, A. Wang, Z. Lu, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 4822.
- [5] a) Y. He, F. Yan, X. Zhang, C. Zhu, Y. Zhao, B. Geng, S. Chou, Y. Xie, Y. Chen, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *13*, 2204177; b) Y. Chen, Y. Liu, W. Zhai, H. Liu, T. Sakthivel, S. Guo, Z. Dai, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2024**, *14*, 2400059.
- [6] a) D. J. Chadderdon, L. Xin, J. Qi, Y. Qiu, P. Krishna, K. L. More, W. Li, *Green Chem.* **2014**, *16*, 3778; b) P. Zhai, C. Wang, Y. Zhao, Y. Zhang, J. Gao, L. Sun, J. Hou, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 1873.
- [7] J. Yan, L. Kong, Y. Ji, J. White, Y. Li, J. Zhang, P. An, S. Liu, S.-T. Lee, T. Ma, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 2149.
- [8] a) M. Park, M. Gu, B.-S. Kim, *ACS Nano.* **2020**, *14*, 6812; b) H. Choi, Y. Y. Kim, S. Seo, Y. Jung, S.-M. Yoo, C. S. Moon, N. J. Jeon, S. Lee, K. Lee, F. M. Toma, J. Seo, S. Lee, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *13*, 2300951.
- [9] a) J. Yang, L. An, S. Wang, C. Zhang, G. Luo, Y. Chen, H. Yang, D. Wang, *Chin. J. Catal.* **2023**, *55*, 116; b) Y. Wang, M. Zhang, Y. Liu, Z. Zheng, B. Liu, M. Chen, G. Guan, K. Yan, *Adv. Sci.* **2023**, *10*, 2207519.
- [10] a) B. Liu, Z. Zheng, Y. Liu, M. Zhang, Y. Wang, Y. Wan, K. Yan, *J. Energy Chem.* **2023**, *78*, 412; b) L. Gao, X. Wen, S. Liu, D. Qu, Y. Ma, J. Feng, Z. Zhong, H. Guan, L. Niu, *J. Mater. Chem. A.* **2022**, *10*, 21135.

- [11] a) T. Wu, S. Sun, J. Song, S. Xi, Y. Du, B. Chen, W. A. Sasangka, H. Liao, C. L. Gan, G. G. Scherer, L. Zeng, H. Wang, H. Li, A. Grimaud, Z. J. Xu, *Nat. Catal.* **2019**, *2*, 763; b) M. Liu, K.-A. Min, B. Han, L. Y. S. Lee, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2021**, *11*, 2101281.
- [12] a) Y. Liu, Y. Ying, L. Fei, Y. Liu, Q. Hu, G. Zhang, S. Y. Pang, W. Lu, C. L. Mak, X. Luo, L. Zhou, M. Wei, H. Huang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 8136; b) S. Yang, K. Yue, X. Liu, S. Li, H. Zheng, Y. Yan, R. Cao, W. Zhang, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 1410.
- [13] X. Han, H. Sheng, C. Yu, T. W. Walker, G. W. Huber, J. Qiu, S. Jin, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 6741.
- [14] a) C. Kuai, Y. Zhang, D. Wu, D. Sokaras, L. Mu, S. Spence, D. Nordlund, F. Lin, X.-W. Du, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 6027; b) X. Gao, X. Bai, P. Wang, Y. Jiao, K. Davey, Y. Zheng, S.-Z. Qiao, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 5842.
- [15] a) J. Jiang, F. Sun, S. Zhou, W. Hu, H. Zhang, J. Dong, Z. Jiang, J. Zhao, J. Li, W. Yan, M. Wang, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9*, 2885; b) K. Zeng, M. Chao, M. Tian, J. Yan, M. H. Rummeli, P. Strasser, R. Yang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2308533.
- [16] J. Lv, L. Wang, R. Li, K. Zhang, D. Zhao, Y. Li, X. Li, X. Huang, G. Wang, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, 14338.
- [17] a) M. Zubair, P. Kumar, M. Klingenhof, B. Subhash, J. A. Yuwono, S. Cheong, Y. Yao, L. Thomsen, P. Strasser, R. D. Tilley, N. M. Bedford, *ACS Catal.* **2023**, *13*, 4799; b) Y. Yao, S. Sun, H. Zhang, Z. Li, C. Yang, Z. Cai, X. He, K. Dong, Y. Luo, Y. Wang, Y. Ren, Q. Liu, D. Zheng, W. Zhuang, B. Tang, X. Sun, W. Hu, *J. Energy Chem.* **2024**, *91*, 306.
- [18] a) G. Zhao, G. Hai, P. Zhou, Z. Liu, Y. Zhang, B. Peng, W. Xia, X. Huang, G. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2213170; b) P. Zhou, G. Hai, G. Zhao, R. Li, X. Huang, Y. Lu, G. Wang, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2023**, *325*, 122364.
- [19] a) H. Xu, C. Shan, X. Wu, M. Sun, B. Huang, Y. Tang, C.-H. Yan, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2020**, *13*, 2949; b) X. Lu, Y. Yang, Y. Yin, Z. Wang, L. Sutrisno, C. Yan, O. G. Schmidt, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2021**, *11*, 2102235.
- [20] S. Haschke, M. Mader, S. Schlicht, A. M. Roberts, A. M. Angeles-Boza, J. A. C. Barth, J. Bachmann, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9*, 4565.
- [21] Y. S. Park, F. Liu, D. Diercks, D. Braaten, B. Liu, C. Duan, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2022**, *318*, 121824.
- [22] a) L. Dang, H. Liang, J. Zhuo, B. K. Lamb, H. Sheng, Y. Yang, S. Jin, *Chem. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 4321; b) Y. Gu, Y. Wang, W. An, Y. Men, Y. Rui, X. Fan, B. Li, *New J. Chem.* **2019**, *43*, 6555; c) H. Zhang, G. Shen, X. Liu, B. Ning, C. Shi, L. Pan, X. Zhang, Z.-F. Huang, J.-J. Zou, *Chin. J. Catal.* **2021**, *42*, 1732.
- [23] K. N. Dinh, P. Zheng, Z. Dai, Y. Zhang, R. Dangol, Y. Zheng, B. Li, Y. Zong, Q. Yan, *Small.* **2018**, *14*, 1703257.
- [24] Z. Qiu, C.-W. Tai, G. A. Niklasson, T. Edvinsson, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2019**, *12*, 572.
- [25] a) Y. Song, Z. Li, K. Fan, Z. Ren, W. Xie, Y. Yang, M. Shao, M. Wei, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2021**, *299*, 120669; b) C. Yang, C. Wang, L. Zhou, W. Duan, Y. Song, F. Zhang, Y. Zhen, J. Zhang, W. Bao, Y. Lu, D. Wang, F. Fu, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2021**, *422*, 130125.
- [26] Y. Lu, T. Liu, C. Dong, Y. Huang, Y. Li, J. Chen, Y. Zou, S. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2007056.
- [27] a) Y. Liao, R. He, W. Pan, Y. Li, Y. Wang, J. Li, Y. Li, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *464*, 142669; b) B. Wang, X. Han, C. Guo, J. Jing, C. Yang, Y. Li, A. Han, D. Wang, J. Liu, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2021**, *298*, 120580.
- [28] S. Anantharaj, S. Noda, M. Driess, P. W. Menezes, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2021**, *6*, 1607.
- [29] a) H. Liang, A. N. Gandi, D. H. Anjum, X. Wang, U. Schwingenschlögl, H. N. Alshareef, *Nano Lett.* **2016**, *16*, 7718; b) J. Lv, P. Liu, R. Li, L. Wang, K. Zhang, P. Zhou, X. Huang, G. Wang, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2021**, *298*, 120587.
- [30] A. R. C. Bredar, A. L. Chown, A. R. Burton, B. H. Farnum, *ACS Appl. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *3*, 66.
- [31] W. Chen, C. Xie, Y. Wang, Y. Zou, C.-L. Dong, Y.-C. Huang, Z. Xiao, Z. Wei, S. Du, C. Chen, *Chem.* **2020**, *6*, 2974.

<span id="page-14-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.advenergymat.de](http://www.advenergymat.de)**

- [32] J. He, Y. Liu, Y. Huang, H. Li, Y. Zou, C.-L. Dong, S. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2009245.
- [33] M. Gong, Y. Li, H. Wang, Y. Liang, J. Z. Wu, J. Zhou, J. Wang, T. Regier, F. Wei, H. Dai, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 8452.
- [34] P. Zhou, X. Lv, S. Tao, J. Wu, H. Wang, X. Wei, T. Wang, B. Zhou, Y. Lu, T. Frauenheim, X. Fu, S. Wang, Y. Zou, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2204089.
- [35] M. Asnavandi, Y. Yin, Y. Li, C. Sun, C. Zhao, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2018**, *3*, 1515.
- [36] L. Zhuang, L. Ge, Y. Yang, M. Li, Y. Jia, X. Yao, Z. Zhu, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1606793.
- [37] D. Kim, J. Resasco, Y. Yu, A. M. Asiri, P. Yang, *Nat. Commun.* **2014**, *5*, 4948.
- [38] E. Bêche, P. Charvin, D. Perarnau, S. Abanades, G. Flamant, *Surf. Interf. Anal.* **2008**, *40*, 264.
- [39] F. Liu, R. Gao, C. Shi, L. Pan, Z.-F. Huang, X. Zhang, J.-J. Zou, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 25252.
- [40] S.-Y. Zhang, X. Shu, Y. Zeng, Q.-Y. Liu, Z.-Y. Du, C.-T. He, W.-X. Zhang, X.-M. Chen, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 2752.

- [41] a) H. Jiang, Q. He, X. Li, X. Su, Y. Zhang, S. Chen, S. Zhang, G. Zhang, J. Jiang, Y. Luo, P. M. Ajayan, L. Song, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1805127; b) M. Yang, Y. Li, C.-L. Dong, S. Li, L. Xu, W. Chen, J. Wu, Y. Lu, Y. Pan, Y. Wu, Y. Luo, Y.-C. Huang, S. Wang, Y. Zou, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2304203.
- [42] a) J. Huang, N. Hales, A. H. Clark, N. S. Yüzbasi, C. N. Borca, T. Huthwelker, T. J. Schmidt, E. Fabbri, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2024**, *14*, 2303529; b) J. Qi, Y.-P. Lin, D. Chen, T. Zhou, W. Zhang, R. Cao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 8917.
- [43] Y. Lu, T. Liu, C.-L. Dong, C. Yang, L. Zhou, Y.-C. Huang, Y. Li, B. Zhou, Y. Zou, S. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2107185.
- [44] B. Zhang, Z. Yang, C. Yan, Z. Xue, T. Mu, *Small.* **2023**, *19*, 2207236.
- [45] a) H. Xue, A. Meng, H. Zhang, Y. Lin, Z. Li, C. Wang, *Nano Res.* **2021**, *14*, 4173; b) Z. Zheng, D. Wu, G. Chen, N. Zhang, H. Wan, X. Liu, R. Ma, *Carbon Energy.* **2022**, *4*, 901.
- [46] Y. Yan, H. Zhou, S.-M. Xu, J. Yang, P. Hao, X. Cai, Y. Ren, M. Xu, X. Kong, M. Shao, Z. Li, H. Duan, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 6144.