---
source: Zhao 等 - 2023 - Electrochemical Oxidation of 5‐Hydroxymethylfurfural on CeO2 ‐Modified Co3 Os.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 34.392s
generated: 2026-01-10T09:12:14.930854Z
---

**www.afm-journal.de**

# **Electrochemical Oxidation of 5-Hydroxymethylfurfural on CeO2-Modified Co3O4 with Regulated Intermediate Adsorption and Promoted Charge Transfer**

*Gongchi Zhao, Guangtong Hai, Peiyun Zhou, Zhimeng Liu, Yanyan Zhang, Baoxiang Peng, Wei Xia, Xiubing Huang,\* and Ge Wang\**

**Electrocatalytic 5-hydroxymethylfurfural oxidation reaction (HMFOR) can replace the kinetically slow oxygen evolution reaction to yield high valueadded chemicals. In this study, interface engineering is constructed by modifying CeO2 nanoparticles on Co3O4 nanowires supported by nickel foam (NF). The construction of the heterointerface can facilitate the structural evolution of catalysts and charge transfer, as a result, the successfully synthesized NF@Co3O4/CeO2 exhibits higher 5-hydroxymethylfurfural conversion (98.0%), 2,5-furandicarboxylic acid (FDCA) yield (94.5%), and Faradaic efficiency (97.5%) at a low electrolysis potential of 1.40 VRHE compared to NF@Co3O4 and NF@CeO2. Density-functional theory calculations indicate that the establishment of heterointerface can effectively regulate the intermediate adsorption and promote electron transfer, which greatly reduces the activation energy of the dehydrogenation step in 5-formyl-2-furancarboxylic acid (FFCA), and promotes the further oxidation of FFCA to FDCA, thereby improving the performance of HMFOR. In this study, the HMFOR behavior of the Co3O4/CeO2 interface effect is deeply explored, which provides guidance for the future design of heterointerface catalysts with efficient HMFOR performance.**

**1. Introduction**

Over the last few decades, the fast expansion of contemporary society has resulted in an explosive demand for

G. Zhao, P. Zhou, Z. Liu, Y. Zhang, X. Huang, G. Wang Beijing Key Laboratory of Function Materials for Molecule & Structure Construction

School of Materials Science and Engineering University of Science and Technology Beijing Beijing 100083, P. R. China

E-mail: xiubinghuang@ustb.edu.cn; gewang@ustb.edu.cn

G. Hai

Department of Chemical Engineering Tsinghua University Beijing 100084, P. R. China

B. Peng, W. Xia Laboratory of Industrial Chemistry Ruhr University Bochum 44780 Bochum, Germany

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article

can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202213170.

**DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202213170**

petroleum-derived products, and nonrenewable fossil resources like coal, crude oil, and natural gas are being depleted at an alarming rate.[1] In addition, the increase in carbon emissions has led to global warming, which has become a global issue that needs to be addressed.[2] To advance the goal of achieving carbon peaking and carbon neutrality, scientists are committed to finding alternatives to petrochemicals. In comparison to petroleum feedstocks, the highly oxygenated functionalized structure of biomass and its derivatives allow for more energy efficient and atomically economical production of organic oxygenates, which can be used as high value-added chemicals or precursors for green polymers.[3] 5-Hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF), generated by dehydrating C6 carbohydrates from lignocellulose, is an important platform chemical for biomass-derived intermediates.[4] Because of its similar molecular structure, the typical product of its oxidation, 2,5-furandicarbo-

xylic acid (FDCA), is listed by the US Department of Energy (DOE) as a "TOP 10+4" biomass-based chemical and can replace petroleum-based monomer terephthalic acid (TPA) to produce renewable biomass-based plastics.[5]

Electrocatalytic 5-hydroxymethylfurfural oxidation reaction (HMFOR) is a clean and environmentally friendly method that could achieve high FDCA yield at ambient temperature and pressure, significantly reduce cell voltage, replace the kinetically slow anode oxygen evolution reaction (OER), and enable efficient simultaneous production of high value-added biomass-derived chemicals and hydrogen with low energy consumption.[6] Huge efforts have been made to explore effective HMFOR catalysts.[7] Through the strategy of constructing multimetallic sites, Yan Kai's team synthesized trimetallic NiCoFelayered double hydroxides (NiCoFe-LDHs) with 95.5% HMF conversion and 84.9% FDCA yield.[8] Qi et al. constructed the ternary metal-organic framework (MOFs) with Co2+, Ni2<sup>+</sup>, and Fe<sup>2</sup>+ as metal centers. The current density may be increased to 100 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> at a potential of 1.35 VRHE with outstanding HMFOR activity by enhancing electronic structure modification.[9] Up to date, transition metal oxide (TMO) catalysts have been investigated to achieve high FDCA yield due to their www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.afm-journal.de

1616928, 2023, 14, Downadaed from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wilej.co.codoi/0.1002/atmf.202213170 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on (0501/2026), See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Library of (0501/2026), See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Library (or 1001/2026), See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Library (or 1001/2026).

unique  $e_g$  orbital hybridization and rich 3d electron numbers. [10] For example, Chio et al. performed HMFOR with manganese oxide (MnO<sub>x</sub>) as the catalyst in an acidic environment, and the FDCA yield was 53.8% at 1.6  $V_{RHE}$ . [11] Through Se doping, Song et al. introduced oxygen vacancies in cobalt oxide (CoO), greatly improving the performance of HMFOR. [12] Duan et al. reported that the dissociation of water was promoted by loading single-atom ruthenium on nickel oxide (NiO), which in turn promoted the performance of HMFOR. [13]

Spinel oxide (AB<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub>), a kind of typical TMO with tetrahedral and octahedral sites filled by A<sup>2+</sup> and B<sup>3+</sup> cations, has garnered a lot of interest due to its abundance of active sites, variable coordination structures, and strong electrocatalytic stability.[14] Co-based spinel oxides have been frequently employed as electrocatalysts for HMFOR in recent years. [15] Zou et al. revealed that tetrahedral Co sites aided HMF adsorption, while octahedral Co sites were critical in HMFOR.<sup>[16]</sup> HMFOR activity can be increased further by replacing Co with Ni or Cu for the spinel oxides' tetrahedral sites.<sup>[17]</sup> More specifically, the key factor to enhance the HMFOR performance of Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> depends largely on the environment of the octahedral Co sites. Given these mechanisms, considerable efforts have been devoted to improving the HMFOR performance of Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, such as the introduction of oxygen vacancies, [18] single atom modification, [19] and tetrahedral site modification.<sup>[20]</sup> Due to the close interaction between different component materials, it was recently discovered that interface engineering is an effective method for tuning the electronic structure, modulating intermediate adsorption, and exposing more active sites. [18,21] However, designing Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>based nanointerfaces with high HMFOR performance remains a great challenge.[19,20] CeO<sub>2</sub>, with the Ce<sup>3+</sup>/Ce<sup>4+</sup> redox pair, exhibits high oxygen storage capacity and good electronic/ionic conductivity, which provides opportunities for strong electronic coupling with other materials.[22] So far, Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> nanocomposites have been reported to have abundant edge sites due to interface engineering to enhance the catalytic activity of OER.[23] Therefore, CeO<sub>2</sub> is expected to form strongly coupled interface active centers with Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, which can regulate intermediate adsorption and facilitate electron transfer behavior, further enhancing the HMFOR performance of Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>.

Herein, we successfully synthesized nickel foam (NF)@  $Co_3O_4/CeO_2$  electrocatalyst with the  $Co_3O_4$  nanowire as "core" and a layer of  $CeO_2$  nanoparticles as "shell". At 1.40  $V_{RHE}$ , the

current density of NF@Co3O4/CeO2 is roughly double that of NF@Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and NF@CeO<sub>2</sub>, demonstrating the promoting effect of the heterointerface. In addition, in situ electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) establishes a structure-activitypotential relationship, indicating that the establishment of the heterointerface can facilitate charge transfer and the structural evolution of catalysts, thereby promoting HMFOR performance. Specifically, the HMF conversion, FDCA yield, and Faradaic efficiency of the NF@Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> electrocatalyst at an electrolysis potential of 1.40 V<sub>RHE</sub> can reach 98.0%, 94.5%, and 97.5%, respectively. Density-functional theory (DFT) calculations further reveal that with the modification of CeO2 on the surface of Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, the active centers at the Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> heterointerface can effectively regulate the intermediate adsorption and promote electron transfer, and thus, the reaction energy of the dehydrogenation step in 5-formyl-2-furancarboxylic acid (FFCA) is greatly reduced. This work elucidates the HMFOR enhancement mechanism at the Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> heterointerface and provides guidance for the development of efficient heterointerface electrocatalysts.

#### 2. Results and Discussion

The loading or in situ growth process of Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> on NF by simple hydrothermal method, electrochemical deposition method and subsequent thermal decomposition process, and the detailed procedures are illustrated in **Scheme 1**. The X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns of each product obtained through the three steps are shown in Figure S1 (Supporting Information). The product obtained by the first hydrothermal reaction is highly consistent with earlier research and corresponds to Co(OH)F (PDF no. 50-0827),[24] and the additional reflection belongs to nickel foam (PDF no. 87-0712).[25] In the next step, after the electrochemical deposition process utilizing NF@Co(OH)F as the substrate, several obvious characteristic diffraction peaks were added to the obtained product, which were verified as CeO2 phase (PDF no. 34-0394).[26] The inconspicuous diffraction peak intensity of Co(OH)F may be due to the shadowing of surface electrodeposited substances. Finally, after thermal decomposition, the substrate Co(OH)F is successfully converted into  $Co_3O_4$  (PDF no. 42–1467). [18,27] The XRD patterns of the synthesized NF@Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, NF@CeO<sub>2</sub>, and

**Scheme 1.** Schematic Diagram of the Synthesis Process of NF@Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub>.

16163028, 2023, 14, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202213170 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 1.** a) XRD patterns of NF@Co3O4/CeO2, NF@Co3O4, NF@CeO2. TEM image b), SAED image c), HRTEM image d), the corresponding interplanar spacing e,f), and EDX mapping g–j) of NF@Co3O4/CeO2.

NF@Co3O4/CeO2 are shown in **Figure 1**a. Except for the additional diffraction peaks of NF, the XRD patterns of NF@Co3O4 and NF@CeO2 agree well with the PDF standard cards of Co3O4 (PDF no. 42–1467) and CeO2 (PDF no. 34–0394), respectively.[18,26,27] In addition, the scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images also provide additional information. As shown in Figures S2a,b and S3a,b, (Supporting Information) the Co(OH) F nanowires cover the whole surface of NF, and the NF@Co3O4 after thermal decomposition also inherits the morphology of the smooth nanowire arrays on the surface of NF@Co(OH)F, which is conducive to the exposure of abundant and accessible active sites. The overall morphology of the nanowire arrays indicates that the "core" component of the initially intended structure is conserved when NF@Co(OH)F is used as the electrodeposited substrate, and a layer of "shell" formed of tiny and dense nanoparticles is added to the surface (Figure S2c,d, Supporting Information). After thermal decomposition treatment, NF@Co3O4/ CeO2 retained the unique overall morphology of "core-shell" nanowire arrays (Figure S3e,f, Supporting Information). As a comparison, NF@CeO2 obtained by electrodeposition of CeO2 on bare NF for the same time showed distinct nanoparticle morphology (Figure S3c,d, Supporting Information). The coreshell structure of NF@Co3O4/CeO2 was further confirmed by the transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image (Figure 1b). The contrast between the different areas is quite apparent, that is, the nanowire core shows a clear outline and the outer layer is the nanoparticle shell. The selected area electron diffraction shown in Figure 1c confirms the presence of Co3O4 and CeO2 crystals, as the different diffraction rings and spots involve the (220) plane of PDF#42-1467 (Co3O4) and the (311), (220), and (111) crystal planes of PDF#34-0394 (CeO2).[18,26,27] The crystal structures of the above two components were revealed by high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) image, with clear boundaries between them (Figure 1d), and the calculated distances between adjacent lattice fringes were 0.24 and 0.31 nm (Figure 1e,f), respectively, corresponding to the (311) plane of Co3O4 and the (111) plane of CeO2. Furthermore, as shown in Figure 1g–j, the elemental distribution confirmed the presence and uniform distribution of CeO2 species throughout the surface of Co3O4 nanowire. As shown in Figure S4 (Supporting Information), this information was verified by the linear scanning energy dispersive X-ray (EDX) spectroscopy mapping image. The low loading of Ce species on Co3O4 is determined to be 1:4 molar ratio of Ce/Co by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry (ICP-OES) (Table S1, Supporting Information).

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was further applied to identify the surface valence states and local microenvironment, and determine the interactions between the different components in NF@Co3O4/CeO2. As shown in **Figure 2**a, the O 1s spectra of different samples can be deconvoluted into three parts, which are surface adsorbed water molecules (532.7 eV), oxygen vacancies (531.1 eV) and lattice oxygen atoms bonded to metal ions (529.5 eV), respectively. The sharp peaks obtained at 529.7 and 529.1 eV for the O 1s XPS spectra of NF@Co3O4/ CeO2 are assigned to CoO bond and CeO bond, respectively.[28] Obviously, compared with the peaks attributable to MO bond in the O 1s spectra of NF@Co3O4 and NF@CeO2, the peaks attributed to the CoO and CeO bond in the O 1s spectra of NF@Co3O4/CeO2 show positive and negative shifts, respectively, indicating that an obvious electron-transfer process occurred between Co species and Ce species in the NF@ Co3O4/CeO2. Furthermore, the relative contents of these three O species (i.e., O-Adsorbed (O-A), O-Vacancy (O-V), and Metal-O (M–O)) were calculated, as shown in Figure 2b. First, the relative content of O-V in NF@Co3O4/CeO2 (33.5%) is higher than that in NF@Co3O4 (30.3%), which may be due to the abundance of O-V in CeO2 (the relative content of O-Vacancy in NF@CeO2 is 51.6%), indicating that the introduction of CeO2 generates more oxygen vacancies. This is also shown in the electron paramagnetic resonance spectra in Figure S5 (Supporting Information). In addition, the Co 2p3/2 XPS spectra of NF@Co3O4 and NF@Co3O4/CeO2 can be divided into two peaks at 780.8 and 779.4 eV (Figure 2c), which are assigned as Co2+ and Co3+, respectively. It was found that the binding energy of Co 2p3/2 of NF@Co3O4/CeO2 showed a negative shift compared with NF@Co3O4, which indicated the existence of www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.afm-journal.de

1616928, 2023, 14, Downladed from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wilej.co.ordoi/1.01.002/adm20213170 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on (05012026), See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-nd-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Like

**Figure 2.** a) High-resolution O 1s XPS spectra of NF@Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub>. NF@Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, NF@CeO<sub>2</sub>. b) Relative content of oxygen vacancy, M–O, and adsorbed oxygen groups in the above samples. c) High-resolution Co  $2p_{3/2}$  XPS spectra of NF@Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> and NF@Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>. d) High-resolution Ce 3d XPS spectra of NF@Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> and NF@CeO<sub>2</sub>. e) The Co<sup>2+</sup>/Co<sup>3+</sup> ratio and the Ce<sup>3+</sup>/Ce<sup>4+</sup> ratio obtained from XPS for the corresponding samples. f) Schematic diagram of the interfacial electronic structure for NF@Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub>.

electronic coupling and electron transfer between CeO2 and Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>. Meanwhile, the Ce 3d XPS spectra of NF@CeO<sub>2</sub> and NF@Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> can be divided into two peaks (Figure 2d), Ce  $3d_{3/2}$  and Ce  $3d_{5/2}$ . The peaks with binding energies of 916.2, 907.1, 903.3, and 900.5 eV belong to Ce  $3d_{3/2}$ , and the peaks with binding energies of 897.9, 888.6, 885.1, and 882.0 eV belong to Ce  $3d_{5/2}$ . The results show that the binding energy of Ce 3d of NF@Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> is negatively shifted compared with that of NF@Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>. The peaks with binding energies of 916.2, 907.1, 900.5, 897.9, 888.6, and 882.0 eV are assigned to Ce4+, whereas the peaks with binding energies of 903.3 and 885.1 eV are attributed to Ce<sup>3+</sup>. Moreover, the Co<sup>2+</sup>/Co<sup>3+</sup> ratio and Ce<sup>3+</sup>/Ce<sup>4+</sup> ratio of the above-mentioned samples were calculated according to the results of XPS peak splitting, as shown in Figure 2e. The Co<sup>2+</sup>/Co<sup>3+</sup> ratio (0.91) of NF@Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> surface is significantly lower than that of NF@ $Co_3O_4$  (2.17), while the  $Ce^{3+}/Ce^{4+}$ ratio (0.50) of NF@Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> surface is significantly higher than that of NF@CeO<sub>2</sub> (0.18). This means that as CeO<sub>2</sub> forms on the surface of Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, the average valence of Ce species in CeO<sub>2</sub> species decreased, implying that the electron transfer process takes place at the site where Ce is the electron acceptor. In Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, the Co species acts as the electron donor first, and the electrons are unambiguously transported to the Ce species.<sup>[29]</sup>

The electrocatalytic HMFOR and OER performances of NF@Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub>, NF@Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, and NF@CeO<sub>2</sub> were measured in 1 M KOH with/without 50 mM HMF, respectively. Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves demonstrate that NF@Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> has greater HMFOR performance than NF@Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and NF@CeO<sub>2</sub>. (**Figure 3**a). The current density of NF@Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> at 1.40 V<sub>RHE</sub> is roughly double that of the other two materials, indicating the promoting impact of the heterointerface (Figure 3b). As shown in Figure 3c, the Tafel slope of NF@Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> (81.7 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) is smaller than that of NF@Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (159.1 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) and NF@CeO<sub>2</sub> (137.4 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), confirming that the establishment of the heterointerface accelerates the reaction kinetics during the HMFOR pro-

cess. To demonstrate the influence of CeO<sub>2</sub> on the intrinsic activity of NF@Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub>, the electrochemical surface area (ECSA)-normalized specific activity of the above materials is further performed. As shown in Figure 3d and Figure S6 (Supporting Information), NF@Co3O4 and NF@Co3O4/CeO2 are far superior to NF@CeO2 with poor intrinsic activity of HMFOR, indicating that the real active site for HMFOR is the Co site. [30] NF@Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> has the best intrinsic activity due to the establishment of heterointerface between Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> and CeO<sub>2</sub> significantly enhances the intrinsic activity. The HMFOR performances of composites with various CeO<sub>2</sub> electrodeposition durations were also investigated (Figure S7, Supporting Information). Obviously, the introduction of CeO2 at various electrodeposition durations is beneficial to HMFOR, and NF@Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub>-1.0 h exhibits the best performance, so this sample is taken as the main research object of this work. Further as shown in Figure S8 (Supporting Information), compared to NF@Co3O4 and NF@CeO2, NF@Co3O4/CeO2 also exhibits better OER performance. The current density of NF@Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> at 1.55 V<sub>RHE</sub> is 3 to 4 times higher than those of the other two materials, also indicating the promotion effect of the established heterointerface. In the presence of HMF, NF@Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> only needs a potential of 1.33 V<sub>RHE</sub> to achieve a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is 200 mV lower than OER (Figure 3e), confirming that the HMFOR can replace the anodic reaction of water splitting, and can achieve a low potential reaction pair to produce higher-value products. In addition, we also performed a multi-potential step test to observe the electrochemical behavior of NF@Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>/CeO<sub>2</sub> at different potentials. As shown in Figure 3f, at potentials of 1.20, 1.25, and 1.30 V<sub>RHE</sub>, a weak current response is generated at the beginning of the applied potential due to the adsorption of HMF and OH\* on the electrode surface, but due to the limitation of charge transfer, gradually no current response occurs. While at 1.35 V<sub>RHE</sub>, the charge transfer rate and mass transfer rate quickly reached equilibrium,[31] and there was a certain

16163028, 2023, 14, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202213170 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 3.** a) LSV curves of NF@Co3O4/CeO2, NF@Co3O4, and NF@CeO2 for HMFOR. b) The HMFOR current density of the samples at 1.40 VRHE. c) Tafel slopes of the NF@Co3O4/CeO2, NF@Co3O4, NF@CeO2. d) LSV curves of NF@Co3O4/CeO2, NF@Co3O4, and NF@CeO2 normalized by ECSA for HMFOR. e) LSV curves of NF@Co3O4/CeO2 for HMFOR/OER. f) Multi-potential step curves of NF@Co3O4/CeO2 for HMFOR.

current response, indicating that NF@Co3O4/CeO2 started the HMFOR in the potential range between 1.30 – 1.35 VRHE, which is consistent with the information shown by the LSV curve. At potentials of 1.40 and 1.45 VRHE, the current density is decreased a little more slowly due to the oxidation of the electrode inner.[32] At the potential of 1.50 VRHE, due to the limitation of mass transfer, the equilibrium current density is greatly increased compared with that of the above potentials, indicating that the OER starts to proceed.[33] The test curves of the subsequent potentials are also similar to the curve change at 1.50 VRHE, and the equilibrium current density increases with the increase of the potential. The cycle tests in Figure S9 (Supporting Information) can further demonstrate its excellent stability and only insignificant potential changes can be found after 2000 cycles.

In situ electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was used to establish the link between interface kinetics, electron transport, and mass transfer during electrochemical reactions at different potentials to further expose the relationship between structure and activity.[34] As shown in Figure 4a,b, Figures S10 and S11 (Supporting Information), the low frequency region (10−<sup>2</sup> – 10<sup>1</sup> Hz) is related to the non-uniform charge distribution caused by the electrochemical reaction (OER/HMFOR),[35] namely the oxidation behavior occurred at the electrode-electrolyte interface, while the high frequency region (10<sup>1</sup> – 10<sup>5</sup> Hz) is associated with oxidation inside the electrode.[36] In **Figure 4**a, a peak was found in the low frequency region at 1.50 VRHE, indicating that OER occurred between 1.45 – 1.50 VRHE, and this peak was visible following the addition of 50 mm HMF (Figure 4b). Notably, an additional peak is found in the low frequency region of 1.35 VRHE, which indicates that HMFOR begins to occur in the potential range of 1.30 – 1.35 VRHE. In order to monitor the relationship between the oxidation inside the electrode and the reaction at the electrode interface more clearly, the EIS was fitted by the optimal equivalent circuit model given (Figure S12, Supporting Information), and the fitting parameters of each component are shown in Tables S2–S7 (Supporting Information). Rp and Rct, respectively, stand for the resistances for electrode inner oxidation and interface oxidation. When the potential was 1.30 VRHE, HMF and OH\* were adsorbed on the surface of the catalyst, HMFOR followed the direct oxidation mechanism,[30] and Rct dropped sharply, which represented the beginning of HMFOR. When the potential increased to 1.35 VRHE, Rp dropped sharply, which was due to the oxidation of the inner electrode to form cobalt (oxy) hydroxide through the process of electron release and oxygen absorption.[34–36] HMFOR not only has direct oxidation, but also has indirect oxidation.[30] In the 1.30 – 1.35 VRHE potential interval, the oxidation mechanism of HMFOR is direct oxidation, and when the potential increases to 1.35 VRHE, the cobalt hydroxide active intermediate participates in the HMFOR process through the indirect oxidation mechanism. As the potential increases, Rp decreases continuously, and (oxy)hydroxides are further generated and participate in the HMFOR reaction. On the NF@Co3O4 electrode, this trend can also be observed. Compared with NF@Co3O4, due to the higher Co valence state of NF@Co3O4/CeO2, it is easier to convert to oxyhydroxide at higher potential, which also explains that the Rp of NF@Co3O4/CeO2 is lower than that of NF@Co3O4. [37] While for NF@CeO2, the Rp is relatively high because there are almost no corresponding reaction sites. When the potentials are 1.50 and 1.55 VRHE, Rct exhibits negative values, indicating that the electrode surface was passivated at low frequency.[36] In summary, the Rp and Rct of NF@Co3O4/CeO2 are lower than those of NF@Co3O4 and NF@CeO2 at all potentials, which indicates that the existence of heterointerface promotes the structure evolution of the catalyst and significantly facilitates the electron transfer.

During the oxidation of HMF to FDCA, there are two possible oxidation pathways due to the coexistence of aldehydes and hydroxyl groups in the HMF molecule (**Figure 5**a).[38] Specifically, the first intermediates of both pathways, 5-hydroxymethyl-2-furancarboxylic acid (HMFCA) and furan-2,5-dicarbaldehyde (DFF) originate from the oxidation of HMF, and

16163028, 2023, 14, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202213170 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 4.** Bode phase plots of the in situ EIS on NF@Co3O4/CeO2 in a) 1 m KOH, and b) 1 m KOH with 50 mm HMF. c) The resistance of the electrode inner oxidation (Rp) on NF@Co3O4/CeO2, NF@Co3O4, and NF@CeO2. d) The resistance of the electrode interface reaction (Rct) on NF@Co3O4/CeO2, NF@Co3O4, and NF@CeO2. e) The scheme of the relationship between structure-activity-potential.

both are subsequently oxidized to the common intermediate FFCA, and further oxidation gives the final product of FDCA. The reaction behavior of HMFOR of NF@Co3O4/CeO2 was measured by potentiostatic electrolysis at 1.40 VRHE in 1 m KOH, and HMF, HMFCA, DFF, FFCA and FDCA were quantitatively determined by periodically collecting the resulting electrolytes. High-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) is used to quantify the concentrations of standard substances and products (Figures S13 and S14, Supporting Information). Since the oxidation of HMF to FDCA involves six-electron transfer, a theoretical charge of 46.3 C is required for the complete conversion of 8 × 10−<sup>5</sup> mole of HMF (10 mm HMF in 8 mL electrolyte). According to the HPLC obtained by potentiostatic electrolysis at 1.40 VRHE in an alkaline environment (Figure S15, Supporting Information), when the charge increased from 0 to 46.3 C, the peak intensity of HMF gradually decreased, while that of FDCA gradually increased. As the charge increases, the current density gradually decreases due to the gradual consumption of HMF (Figure S16, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure 5b, higher yields of HMFCA were detected during the HMFOR process, indicating that pathway I dominates in the strong alkaline environment. The HMFOR of NF@Co3O4/ CeO2 was further systematically investigated under alkaline conditions at potentials of 1.40, 1.45, 1.50, 1.55, and 1.60 VRHE (Figure 5c). As the potential increased, the HMF conversion, FDCA yield, and Faradaic efficiency gradually decreased due to the emergence of competitive OER. It is worth noting that the HMFCA content of HMFOR on NF@Co3O4/CeO2 is much lower than that of NF@Co3O4 and NF@CeO2. This indicates that the establishment of the heterointerface can accelerate the further oxidation of HMFCA (Figure 5d). Therefore, during the HMFOR process, NF@Co3O4/CeO2 has higher HMF conversion (98.0%), FDCA yield (94.5%), and Faraday efficiency (97.5%) than NF@Co3O4 and NF@CeO2 (Figure S17, Supporting Information). As shown in Table S8 (Supporting Information), the HMFOR performance of NF@Co3O4/CeO2 in this work is quite competitive compared with some reported HMFOR catalysts. Furthermore, NF@Co3O4/CeO2 exhibited outstanding

16163028, 2023, 14, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202213170 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 5.** Electrochemical performances. a) Two possible pathways of HMF oxidation to FDCA. b) Conversion of HMF and yields of products during HMFOR in for NF@Co3O4/CeO2. c)The HMF conversion, FDCA yield and Faradaic efficiency at different potentials for NF@Co3O4/CeO2. d) The concentration of HMFCA during HMFOR for NF@Co3O4/CeO2, NF@Co3O4, and NF@CeO2. e) The HMF conversion, FDCA yield and Faradaic efficiency on NF@Co3O4/CeO2 under five successive electrolysis cycles.

electrochemical stability after five consecutive electrochemical cycles, maintaining high HMF conversion, FDCA yield and Faradaic efficiency (Figure 5e). After 5 electrolysis cycles, the NF@ Co3O4/CeO2 was examined using SEM, TEM, HRTEM, XRD, and XPS to ascertain the stability of the morphology, structure, and composition. SEM, TEM, and HRTEM results (Figures S18 and S19, Supporting Information) reveal that the interface structure of nanowires and nanoparticles remains uniform after the reaction, and the lattices of Co3O4 and CeO2 can also be identified respectively, indicating that the material's microstructure remains stable. The XRD pattern (Figure S20, Supporting Information) shows no obvious change, except for the appearance of a new peak of NiO, which may be the result of the oxidation of Ni foam exposed to air. Some minor changes in the XPS spectra of Figure S21 (Supporting Information) indicate a slight change in the surface chemical state of NF@Co3O4/CeO2. It is worth noting that under the severe continuous long-term cyclic electrolysis test environment, the change of the surface chemical state of NF@Co3O4/CeO2 is inevitable, but its morphology, structure and phase can generally remain stable, as confirmed by the above SEM, TEM, HRTEM, and XRD results. In summary, NF@Co3O4/CeO2 has good structural and performance stability.

DFT calculations are employed to further reveal the promoting mechanism of the modification of CeO2 on Co3O4 in HMFOR. The structures of Co3O4 (311) and Co3O4 (311)/CeO2 (111) are presented in **Figure 6**a,b. First, the adsorption configurations of HMF and OH\* on Co3O4 (311) and Co3O4 (311)/CeO2 (111) are different, as shown in Figures S22 and S23 (Supporting Information). The bonding strengths of HMF and OH\* with Co3O4 are −4.48 and −4.88 eV, respectively, while after surface modification of Co3O4 with CeO2, the bonding strengths weaken to −2.17 and −3.25 eV due to steric hindrance (Figure 6c). The moderate adsorption energy not only ensures the efficient adsorption of HMF and OH\* on the heterointerface, but also facilitates the desorption in the subsequent reaction process.[39] In addition, the electron density difference and density of states were calculated to provide insights into electron transfer at the Co3O4/CeO2 interface. Figure 6d shows the electron redistribution at the interface, and a clear electron flow from Co3O4 to CeO2 is observed, which is consistent with the XPS results, thereby promoting the HMFOR performance. The gap-free characterization of the partial density of states of the two models suggests that their metallic properties are favorable for fast electron transfer (Figure 6e,f). Near the Fermi level, the total density of states value of the Co3O4/CeO2 interface is higher than that of Co3O4, showing the promoted conductivity of the heterointerface, which has remarkable catalytic performance. The specific reaction process of HMFOR is shown in Figure S24 (Supporting Information). Figure 6g and Figure S25 (Supporting Information) show a summary of the reaction energy spectra and adsorption configurations associated with the lowest energy path. The dehydrogenation step of FFCA to FDCA was determined to be the ratedetermining step (RDS) for Co3O4, with a maximum energy change of 1.96 eV. After the introduction of CeO2, the interfacial active centers can regulate the adsorption of HMF and OH\* and increase the electron transfer rate. The results show that the RDS changed from FFCA→FDCA to HMF→HMFCA has an energy change of 1.46 eV, which improves the reaction kinetics and in turn promotes the enhanced performance of HMFOR.

#### **3. Conclusion**

In summary, we fabricated a self-supporting NF@Co3O4/CeO2 electrocatalyst with a heterointerface using Co3O4 nanowire as "core" and a layer of CeO2 nanoparticles as the "shell". Compared to NF@Co3O4 and NF@CeO2, NF@Co3O4/CeO2 greatly

16163028, 2023, 14, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202213170 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 6.** The DFT optimized structures of the a) Co3O4 (311) and b) Co3O4 (311)/CeO2 (111). c) HMF and OH\* adsorption free energy. d) The charge density difference plot at Co3O4/CeO2 interface, the green area represents electron deficiency and the pink area represents electron enrichment. Density of states (DOS) of e) Co3O4 and f) Co3O4/CeO2. g) Free energies of HMFOR step on Co3O4 and Co3O4/CeO2, and adsorption configurations of HMFOR intermediates on Co3O4/CeO2.

enhanced the catalytic performance of HMFOR due to the interface effect. At a potential of 1.40 VRHE, the current density of NF@Co3O4/CeO2 is roughly double that of the other two samples. In situ EIS showed that the construction of the Co3O4/CeO2 heterointerface greatly facilitated the structural evolution of catalysts and electron transfer. At an electrolysis potential of 1.40 VRHE, NF@Co3O4/CeO2 exhibited higher HMF conversion (98.0%), FDCA yield (94.5%), and Faradaic efficiency (97.5%). According to DFT calculations analysis, the construction of the heterointerface can regulate the intermediate adsorption and facilitate electron transfer, which greatly reduces the reaction energy of the dehydrogenation step in FFCA, thereby improving the performance of HMFOR. In this paper, the HMFOR behavior of the Co3O4/CeO2 interface effect is deeply explored, and the intrinsic mechanism of HMFOR enhancement is revealed, which provides guidance for the design of heterointerface electrocatalysts with efficient HMFOR performance in the future.

### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

#### **Acknowledgements**

G.Z. and G.H. contributed equally to this work. The manuscript was written through contributions of all authors. All authors have given approval to the final version of the manuscript. This work was supported by the National Key Research and Development Program of China (No. 2021YFB3500700), the National Natural Science Foundation of China

16163028, 2023, 14, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202213170 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [05/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

(No. 51802015, No. 51972024), and the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities and the Youth Teacher International Exchange & Growth Program (No. QNXM20220026).

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

#### **Keywords**

5-hydroxymethylfurfural oxidation, ceria, electrocatalysts, interface engineering

> Received: November 12, 2022 Revised: December 13, 2022 Published online: January 17, 2023

- [1] S.-W. Lee, S. Bae, D. Kim, H.-S. Lee, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2002202.
- [2] Z. Zhang, K. Deng, *ACS Catal.* **2015**, *5*, 6529.
- [3] a) D. Tang, G. Lu, Z. Shen, Y. Hu, L. Yao, B. Li, G. Zhao, B. Peng, X. Huang, *J Energy Chem* **2023**, *77*, 80; b) R. Li, K. Xiang, Z. Liu, Z. Peng, Y. Zou, S. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2208212; c) P. Sudarsanam, R. Zhong, S. Van den Bosch, S. M. Coman, V. I. Parvulescu, B. F. Sels, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2018**, *47*, 8349; d) W. Zhang, X. Qiu, C. Wang, L. Zhong, F. Fu, J. Zhu, Z. Zhang, Y. Qin, D. Yang, C. C. Xu, *Carbon Res.* **2022**, *1*, 14.
- [4] Y. Yang, T. Mu, *Green Chem.* **2021**, *23*, 4228.
- [5] a) Y. Lu, C.-L. Dong, Y.-C. Huang, Y. Zou, Z. Liu, Y. Liu, Y. Li, N. He, J. Shi, S. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 19215; b) Y. Zhao, M. Cai, J. Xian, Y. Sun, G. Li, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, 20164.
- [6] a) Y. Li, X. Wei, L. Chen, J. Shi, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 19550; b) N. Zhang, Y. Zou, L. Tao, W. Chen, L. Zhou, Z. Liu, B. Zhou, G. Huang, H. Lin, S. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 15895; c) S. Barwe, J. Weidner, S. Cychy, D. M. Morales, S. Dieckhöfer, D. Hiltrop, J. Masa, M. Muhler, W. Schuhmann, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 11460; d) G. Yang, Y. Jiao, H. Yan, Y. Xie, A. Wu, X. Dong, D. Guo, C. Tian, H. Fu, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2000455.
- [7] a) B. Liu, S. Xu, M. Zhang, X. Li, D. Decarolis, Y. Liu, Y. Wang, E. K. Gibson, C. R. A. Catlow, K. Yan, *Green Chem.* **2021**, *23*, 4034; b) M. J. Kang, H. Park, J. Jegal, S. Y. Hwang, Y. S. Kang, H. G. Cha, *Appl. Catal., B* **2019**, *242*, 85; c) M. Cai, Y. Zhang, Y. Zhao, Q. Liu, Y. Li, G. Li, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, 20386.
- [8] M. Zhang, Y. Liu, B. Liu, Z. Chen, H. Xu, K. Yan, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 5179.
- [9] X.-J. Bai, W.-X. He, X.-Y. Lu, Y. Fu, W. Qi, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, 14270.
- [10] a) S. Sun, Y. Sun, Y. Zhou, S. Xi, X. Ren, B. Huang, H. Liao, L. P. Wang, Y. Du, Z. J. Xu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 6042; b) C. Wang, H.-J. Bongard, C. Weidenthaler, Y. Wu, F. Schüth, *Chem. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 3123.
- [11] S. R. Kubota, K.-S. Choi, *ChemSusChem* **2018**, *11*, 2138.
- [12] X. Huang, J. Song, M. Hua, Z. Xie, S. Liu, T. Wu, G. Yang, B. Han, *Green Chem.* **2020**, *22*, 843.

- [13] R. Ge, Y. Wang, Z. Li, M. Xu, S.-M. Xu, H. Zhou, K. Ji, F. Chen, J. Zhou, H. Duan, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202200211.
- [14] a) Q. Zhao, Z. Yan, C. Chen, J. Chen, *Chem. Rev.* **2017**, *117*, 10121; b) T. Wu, S. Sun, J. Song, S. Xi, Y. Du, B. Chen, W. A. Sasangka, H. Liao, C. L. Gan, G. G. Scherer, L. Zeng, H. Wang, H. Li, A. Grimaud, Z. J. Xu, *Nat. Catal.* **2019**, *2*, 763; c) X.-M. Liu, X. Cui, K. Dastafkan, H.-F. Wang, C. Tang, C. Zhao, A. Chen, C. He, M. Han, Q. Zhang, *J Energy Chem* **2021**, *53*, 290; d) Y. Sun, J. Wu, Y. Xie, X. Wang, K. Ma, Z. Tian, Z. Zhang, Q. Liao, W. Zheng, Z. Kang, Y. Zhang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2207116.
- [15] C. Wang, H.-J. Bongard, M. Yu, F. Schüth, *ChemSusChem* **2021**, *14*, 5199.
- [16] Y. Lu, T. Liu, C.-L. Dong, C. Yang, L. Zhou, Y.-C. Huang, Y. Li, B. Zhou, Y. Zou, S. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2107185.
- [17] L. Gao, Y. Bao, S. Gan, Z. Sun, Z. Song, D. Han, F. Li, L. Niu, *Chem-SusChem* **2018**, *11*, 2547.
- [18] J. Lv, L. Wang, R. Li, K. Zhang, D. Zhao, Y. Li, X. Li, X. Huang, G. Wang, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, 14338.
- [19] H. Li, C. Chen, D. Yan, Y. Wang, R. Chen, Y. Zou, S. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 23432.
- [20] W. Li, L. Zhao, X. Jiang, Z. Chen, Y. Zhang, S. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2207727.
- [21] X. Huang, G. Zhao, G. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, 24631.
- [22] a) X. Huang, H. Zheng, G. Lu, P. Wang, L. Xing, J. Wang, G. Wang, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2019**, *7*, 1169; b) X. Huang, K. Zhang, B. Peng, G. Wang, M. Muhler, F. Wang, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, 9618; c) G. Lu, H. Zheng, J. Lv, G. Wang, X. Huang, *J. Power Sources* **2020**, *480*, 229091; d) Y. Li, X. Zhang, Z. Zheng, *CCS Chem.* **2021**, *4*, 31; e) H. Sun, C. Tian, G. Fan, J. Qi, Z. Liu, Z. Yan, F. Cheng, J. Chen, C.-P. Li, M. Du, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*, 1910596.
- [23] a) Y. Liu, C. Ma, Q. Zhang, W. Wang, P. Pan, L. Gu, D. Xu, J. Bao, Z. Dai, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1900062; b) X. Long, H. Lin, D. Zhou, Y. An, S. Yang, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2018**, *3*, 290.
- [24] F. Yang, Y. Chen, G. Cheng, S. Chen, W. Luo, *ACS Catal.* **2017**, *7*, 3824.
- [25] K. Xiao, L. Xia, G. Liu, S. Wang, L.-X. Ding, H. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2015**, *3*, 6128.
- [26] L. Chen, J. Tang, L.-N. Song, P. Chen, J. He, C.-T. Au, S.-F. Yin, *Appl. Catal., B* **2019**, *242*, 379.
- [27] S. L. Zhang, B. Y. Guan, X. F. Lu, S. Xi, Y. Du, X. W. Lou, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2002235.
- [28] B. Liu, C. Li, G. Zhang, X. Yao, S. S. C. Chuang, Z. Li, *ACS Catal.* **2018**, *8*, 10446.
- [29] B. Qiu, C. Wang, N. Zhang, L. Cai, Y. Xiong, Y. Chai, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 6484.
- [30] Y. Lu, T. Liu, Y.-C. Huang, L. Zhou, Y. Li, W. Chen, L. Yang, B. Zhou, Y. Wu, Z. Kong, Z. Huang, Y. Li, C.-L. Dong, S. Wang, Y. Zou, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 4242.
- [31] a) E. Mousset, Y. Pechaud, N. Oturan, M. A. Oturan, *Appl. Catal., B* **2019**, *240*, 102; b) J. Li, J. Wu, Z. Xie, X. Zhang, S. Lv, H. Shao, K. Qu, W. Cai, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *428*, 131140.
- [32] V. C. C. Wang, B. A. Johnson, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 7109.
- [33] Z. Sun, Y. Wang, L. Zhang, H. Wu, Y. Jin, Y. Li, Y. Shi, T. Zhu, H. Mao, J. Liu, C. Xiao, S. Ding, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*, 1910482.
- [34] A. R. C. Bredar, A. L. Chown, A. R. Burton, B. H. Farnum, *ACS Appl. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *3*, 66.
- [35] W. Chen, L. Xu, X. Zhu, Y.-C. Huang, W. Zhou, D. Wang, Y. Zhou, S. Du, Q. Li, C. Xie, L. Tao, C.-L. Dong, J. Liu, Y. Wang, R. Chen, H. Su, C. Chen, Y. Zou, Y. Li, Q. Liu, S. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 7297.
- [36] W. Chen, C. Xie, Y. Wang, Y. Zou, C.-L. Dong, Y.-C. Huang, Z. Xiao, Z. Wei, S. Du, C. Chen, B. Zhou, J. Ma, S. Wang, *Chem* **2020**, *6*, 2974.

*Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2213170

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.afm-journal.de**

- [37] a) Q. Zhang, N. M. Bedford, J. Pan, X. Lu, R. Amal, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2019**, *9*, 1901312; b) Z.-F. Huang, J. Song, Y. Du, S. Xi, S. Dou, J. M. V. Nsanzimana, C. Wang, Z. J. Xu, X. Wang, *Nat. Energy* **2019**, *4*, 329.
- [38] Y. Lu, C.-L. Dong, Y.-C. Huang, Y. Zou, Y. Liu, Y. Li, N. Zhang, W. Chen, L. Zhou, H. Lin, S. Wang, *Sci China Chem* **2020**, *63*, 980.
- [39] a) Z. Wang, S. Shen, Z. Lin, W. Tao, Q. Zhang, F. Meng, L. Gu, W. Zhong, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2112832; b) X. Guo, X. Zheng, X. Hu, Q. Zhao, L. Li, P. Yu, C. Jing, Y. Zhang, G. Huang, B. Jiang, C. Xu, F. Pan, *Nano Energy* **2021**, *84*, 105932; c) Q. Xu, J. Zhang, H. Zhang, L. Zhang, L. Chen, Y. Hu, H. Jiang, C. Li, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2021**, *14*, 5228.