---
source: Aguilar‐Vallejo 等 - 2019 - Electrocatalytic Evaluation of Highly Stable PtZrO2 Electrocatalysts for the Methanol Ox.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 52.316s
generated: 2026-01-09T04:32:20.797067Z
---

# **Accepted Article**

**Title:** Electrocatalytic evaluation of highly stable Pt/ZrO2 electrocatalysts synthesized without the assistance of any carbon support for the methanol oxidation reaction

**Authors:** Angelica Aguilar-Vallejo, Lorena Alvarez-Contreras, Minerva Guerra-Balcazar, Janet Ledesma-Garcia, Luis Gerardo Arriaga, Noé Arjona, and Sandra Virginia Rivas

This manuscript has been accepted after peer review and appears as an Accepted Article online prior to editing, proofing, and formal publication of the final Version of Record (VoR). This work is currently citable by using the Digital Object Identifier (DOI) given below. The VoR will be published online in Early View as soon as possible and may be different to this Accepted Article as a result of editing. Readers should obtain the VoR from the journal website shown below when it is published to ensure accuracy of information. The authors are responsible for the content of this Accepted Article.

**To be cited as:** *ChemElectroChem* 10.1002/celc.201900220

**Link to VoR:** http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/celc.201900220

A Journal of

# **Electrocatalytic evaluation of highly stable Pt/ZrO<sup>2</sup> electrocatalysts synthesized without the assistance of any carbon support for the methanol oxidation reaction**

Angélica Aguilar-Vallejo,[a, d] Lorena Álvarez-Contreras,[b] Minerva Guerra-Balcázar,[a] Janet Ledesma-García,[a] Luis Gerardo Arriaga,[c] Noé Arjona\*[c] and Sandra Rivas\*\*[a]

**Abstract:** Zirconium oxide has been proposed as an alternative to carbon supports due to its high electrochemical stability at high electrode potential values; however, its low electrical conductivity has limited its use. In this work, we successfully overcome this issue by synthesizing Pt electrocatalysts directly on ZrO<sup>2</sup> supports. The ZrO<sup>2</sup> supports were obtained through a sol-gel method at 350°C (ZrO2─350) and 500°C (ZrO2─500) calcination temperatures, obtaining surface areas of 82 and 92 m<sup>2</sup> g -1 and crystalline phases corresponding to the tetragonal and mixture of tetragonal and monoclinic phases, respectively. Pt nanoparticles synthesized directly on ZrO<sup>2</sup> had particle sizes of 3.0±0.3 nm and 6.0±0.8 nm for Pt/ZrO2─350 and Pt/ZrO2─500, respectively. Pt/ZrO2─350 and Pt/ZrO2─500 presented similar onset potentials (-0.34 V and -0.33 V) and current densities (249.3 mA mg-1 and 255.8 mA mg-1 ) than a commercial Pt/C (-0.39 V, 277.5 mA mg-1 ) during the electro-oxidation of 2 M methanol in alkaline medium. Regarding catalyst stability, Pt/ZrO2─500 kept 96% of its initial current after 500 cycles, while Pt/C maintained 49% of its initial current.

## **Introduction**

Fuel cells are electrochemical devices that convert the chemical energy of a fuel directly into electricity in a highly efficient way. However, it is recognized that high fabrication cost is one of the barriers to fuel cell commercialization. Several strategies to

[a] Prof. L.G. Arriaga, Dr. N. Arjona

Centro de Investigación y Desarrollo Tecnológico en Electroquímica S.C.

Parque Tecnológico Querétaro S/N, Sanfandila, Pedro Escobedo, México, C.P. 76703

E-mail: [wvelazquez@cideteq.mx](mailto:wvelazquez@cideteq.mx) & [noe.arjona@yahoo.com.mx](mailto:noe.arjona@yahoo.com.mx)

[b] Dr. L. Álvarez-Contreras

Centro de Investigación en Materiales Avanzados Complejo Industrial Chihuahua, Chihuahua, México, C.P. 31136.

[c] MS. A. Aguilar-Vallejo, Dr. J. Ledesma-García, Dr. M. Guerra-Balcázar. Dr. S. Rivas

División de Investigación y Posgrado, Facultad de Ingeniería Universidad Autónoma de Querétaro

Querétaro, México, C.P. 76010 E-mail: [sandra.virginia.rivas@uaq.mx](mailto:sandra.virginia.rivas@uaq.mx)

[d] Ms. A. Aguilar-Vallejo

Tecnológico Nacional de México, Instituto Tecnológico de Tijuana, Apdo. Postal 1166 Tijuana, 22444, Baja California, México.

Supporting information for this article is given via a link at the end of the document.

decrease the high costs have been implemented; one of them consists of using supports to reduce electrocatalyst loading (mg/cm<sup>2</sup> ).[1] These supports must fulfill the following characteristics: (1) high surface area to achieve a high dispersion of the electrocatalyst, (2) high porosity to allow the flow of reagents (liquid or gas) towards the reaction sites, (3) high electrical conductivity, and (4) electrochemical and thermal stability under the operating conditions of the electrochemical device.[2] Vulcan Carbon XC-72 is the most commonly used material since it has several of the required characteristics; however, it is highly susceptible to corrosion.[3] The working potential of the majority of electrochemical energy systems is usually higher than the thermodynamic potential for carbon corrosion; thus, support corrosion might take place. Consequently, if the carbon-based support is oxidized to CO2/CO, the electrocatalyst could lose activity through poisoning. In addition, a severe corrosion process will cause electrocatalyst leaching or agglomeration.

Research towards the development of Vulcan Carbon substitute materials as supports has been oriented in three specific lines: carbon-based materials (nanotubes, nanofibers, graphene and mesoporous carbon), non-carbon-based materials (oxides, nitrides, carbides, doped and functionalized materials), and conducting polymers (polyaniline, polypyrrole, polythiophene and derivatives).[4] All these materials have desirable characteristics of a support; nonetheless, none of them fulfill all the requirements. Most carbon-based materials are not expensive but are unstable under fuel-cell operating conditions.[5] Conductive polymers provide high surface areas; however, in some cases the presence of the electrocatalyst promotes degradation of the polymer, this problem has been successfully addressed using nanostructured polymers.[6] Nevertheless, due to their low electric conductivity compared to carbon materials,[7] as well as low thermal stability,[8] the use of these polymers has been focused to an approach as hybrid support to overcome the conductivity problem. Ceramics (TiO2, WO3, SnO2, SiO2, ZrO2) are highly corrosion resistant but, have low surface areas compared to polymers or carbon-based materials, and ceramic conductivity occurs at the semiconductor conductivity level. Since ceramic materials can be modified to improve their properties, they cannot be discarded as electrocatalyst supports. In fact, it has been demonstrated that some of these ceramic supports have a co-catalytic effect.[9] Among ceramic supports, zirconium oxide offers attractive characteristics for being used as a support. Zirconium oxide is a hydrophilic material, and its surface area depends on the

synthesis method; it has been studied most commonly as a

## **ARTICLE**

proton-conducting membrane filler to increase water uptake at high temperature (95-120°C).[10] This oxide modified with sulfate anions (SO<sub>x</sub>-ZrO<sub>2</sub>) acts as a super acidic material with a proton conductivity of 5 x10<sup>-2</sup> S/cm for a S/Zr=35 ratio at 60-150°C.<sup>[11]</sup> This characteristic could be better exploited if Nafion® membranes were replaced by a polymer capable of operating at higher temperature, [12] and in this manner, the adsorption of species such as CO on Pt could be avoided. For now, they can be used as inorganic fillers to improve the membrane water-up take under low relative humidity conditions in PEMFCs. Moreover, ZrO2 has been used together with carbon-based materials (Vulcan carbon, SWCNTs, MWCNTs) as supports for Pt electrocatalysts, and its properties have been tested for methanol oxidation reactions.<sup>[13]</sup> The oxygen reduction reaction has also been studied using Pt supports on ZrO<sub>2</sub> coated with nitrogen-doped carbon (CNx). The results demonstrate that the presence of ZrO2 increases activity when compared to carbon coated with nitrogen-doped carbon. displaying a more positive onset potential, while the ORR followed the 4 electron pathway in both cases.[14] The catalytic activity of Pt supported on ZrO<sub>2</sub> has also been studied for the decomposition of alcohols (C<sub>1</sub>-C<sub>4</sub>) to produce H<sub>2</sub> at low temperature (100-300 °C) under atmospheric pressure in packed bed reactors, where the alcohol of interest is carried through the reactor by a He flow. The use of Pt loading of 2 wt.% improved the selectivity of these reactors towards hydrogen production; however, with the exception of methanol, the rest of the studied alcohols caused deactivation at T>250°C.[15] It is determined from these works that ZrO<sub>2</sub> can be used as a support for the electrocatalysis for alcohol oxidation (such as methanol and ethanol); however, its successful use has been accomplished by the employment of co-supports. The use of co-supports can cause an improvement in the electrical conductivity and surface area of ZrO<sub>2</sub> supports, but they can compromise the long-term activity/durability. Therefore, new strategies to overcome the poor electrical conductivity and/or surface area of ceramic supports must be established. In this work, we developed a methodology to synthesize Pt nanoparticles directly on ZrO<sub>2</sub> supports to improve the electrical/electrocatalytic properties of Pt/ZrO2 electrocatalysts, avoiding the use of any carbon support. The resulting Pt/ZrO2 materials (named as were Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>-350 and Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—500) characterized physicochemically, and the electrocatalytic activity was tested for the methanol electro-oxidation reaction (MOR) in alkaline media with various fuel concentrations. In addition, the comparison between the activity and durability of the Pt/ZrO2 support vs. a typical carbon-based commercial Pt/C 20 wt.% is presented.

#### **Results and Discussion**

#### Physicochemical characterization of ZrO<sub>2</sub> supports

 $ZrO_2$  supports were characterized before the chemical reduction of Pt nanoparticles; thus, X-ray diffractograms of  $ZrO_2$ –350 and  $ZrO_2$ –500 are presented in Fig. 1a. In this figure, it is observed that the calcination temperature of 350°C resulted in a  $ZrO_2$  material with lower crystallinity than that found for  $ZrO_2$  calcined at 500°C. Three main planes were found for  $ZrO_2$ –350 and are indexed with the  $ZrO_2$  tetragonal structure (JCPDS card No. 50-

1089). The increase in temperature at 500°C resulted in an increase of the crystallinity of ZrO<sub>2</sub> material due to the appearance of several diffraction angles. A summary of positions of diffraction angles found for these materials is displayed in Table 1. According with this table, the positions of the diffraction angles of ZrO<sub>2</sub>-500 indicate that this material comprises a mixture of monoclinic (JCPDS no. 13-0307) and tetragonal (JCPDS card No. 50-1089) crystalline planes.[16] A further analysis of these crystalline phases was made by Raman spectroscopy (Fig. 1b). ZrO<sub>2</sub>-500 presented bands associated with Zr-Zr vibrations (178.59 cm<sup>-1</sup>), Zr-O-Zr symmetric stretching (193.58, 564.86, 640.63 cm<sup>-1</sup>), Zr-O vibrations (342.32 cm<sup>-1</sup>) and O-O vibrations (388.54 cm<sup>-1</sup>).<sup>[17]</sup> According to the Raman signals, vibrations bands at 178.59, 193.58, 342.32, 388.54, 487.18, 564.86 and 640.63 cm<sup>-1</sup> can be attributed to the ZrO<sub>2</sub> monoclinic structure, [18] while the bands at 160.89, 564.86 and 640.63 cm<sup>-1</sup> can be related to the tetragonal structure. Thus, Raman spectroscopy corroborated the ZrO<sub>2</sub> mixture of phases at 500°C, as was found by XRD. Vibrational bands for ZrO<sub>2</sub>-350 were weak and difficult to identify, which could be related to its low crystallinity, as was observed by XRD.

Figure 1. a) X-ray diffraction, b) Raman spectra and c) BET analysis of  $ZrO_2$  calcined at 350°C and 500°C.

## **ARTICLE**

The surface area (SA) of ZrO<sub>2</sub>-350 and ZrO<sub>2</sub>-500 was determined by BET, and the isotherms of N2 ads/desorption are presented in Fig. 1c. These materials show hysteresis type H<sub>3</sub>, associated with agglomerates of parallel plate pores and an adsorption/desorption isotherm type-IV corresponding to mesoporous materials. SAs of 83 and 92 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup> with pore volumes close to 0.4 and 0.5 cm<sup>3</sup> g<sup>-1</sup> were found for ZrO<sub>2</sub>-350 and ZrO<sub>2</sub>-500, respectively. In the literature, several ZrO<sub>2</sub> supports with different crystalline structure are found; a ZrO2 with tetragonal structure had SAs ranging from 15.2 to 23.7 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>.[19] ZrO<sub>2</sub> with micro- and nanostructures presented SAs ranging from 31.70 to 66.56 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>.[16b] Monoclinic and tetragonal ZrO<sub>2</sub> obtained by a solvothermal method had SAs ranging from 90 to 140 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>,[20] and self-assembled mesoporous zirconia presented SAs ranging from 100 to 124 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>.[21] Thus, the surface areas herein reported are competitive with those mentioned above.

#### Physicochemical characterization of Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub> materials

Pt nanoparticles obtained by a chemical reduction introducing  $ZrO_2$  supports (Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—350 and Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—500) during their particle formation process were characterized by XRD, TEM, EDX and XPS. X-ray diffractograms of Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—350 and Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—500 are presented in Fig. 2, and the position of the diffraction angles and d-spacings are summarized in Table 1. Crystallographic planes of the tetragonal structure of  $ZrO_2$  and Pt were well observed for Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—350.

Figure 2. X-ray diffractograms of a) Pt/ZrO2-350 and b) Pt/ZrO2-500.

Table 1. Summary of diffraction angles and d-spacings found for ZrO<sub>2</sub> supports and for Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—350 and Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—500.

| supports and for Pt/ZrO <sub>2</sub> —350 and Pt/ZrO <sub>2</sub> —500. |                             |               |                                          |                                           |                                    |                             |  |  |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------|---------------|------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|------------------------------------|-----------------------------|--|--|
| Materi<br>al                                                            | Plan<br>e                   | Struct<br>ure | Reporte<br>d<br>diffract<br>ion<br>angle | Experime<br>ntal<br>diffractio<br>n angle | Report<br>ed d-<br>spacin<br>g (Å) | Experime ntal d-spacing (Å) |  |  |
| ZrO <sub>2</sub> — 350                                                  | (111)                       | t             | 30.48                                    | 30.41                                     | 2.93                               | 2.94                        |  |  |
|                                                                         | (220)                       | t             | 50.98                                    | 50.39                                     | 1.82                               | 1.82                        |  |  |
|                                                                         | (311)                       | T.            | 60.45                                    | 60.32                                     | 1.53                               | 1.53                        |  |  |
| ZrO <sub>2</sub> —<br>500                                               | (011)                       | m             | 24.09                                    | 24.04                                     | 3.69                               | 3.71                        |  |  |
|                                                                         | (-111)                      | m             | 28.24                                    | 27.96                                     | 3.16                               | 3.20                        |  |  |
|                                                                         | (111)                       | t             | 30.48                                    | 30.19                                     | 2.93                               | 2.97                        |  |  |
|                                                                         | (002)                       | m             | 34.23                                    | 34.18                                     | 2.62                               | 2.63                        |  |  |
|                                                                         | (-112)                      | m             | 40                                       | 40.17                                     | 2.25                               | 2.25                        |  |  |
|                                                                         | (-220)                      | m             | 50.14                                    | 50.07                                     | 1.82                               | 1.83                        |  |  |
| 4                                                                       | (-302)                      | m             | 59.98                                    | 59.90                                     | 1.54                               | 1.55                        |  |  |
| Pt/                                                                     | ZrO <sub>2</sub> (1         |               |                                          |                                           |                                    |                             |  |  |
| ZrO <sub>2</sub> — 350                                                  | 11)                         | t             | 30.48                                    | 30.36                                     | 2.93                               | 2.95                        |  |  |
|                                                                         | ZrO <sub>2</sub> (3         | t             | 60.45                                    | 60.30                                     | 1.53                               | 1.54                        |  |  |
|                                                                         | Pt(111)                     | fcc           | 39.76                                    | 39.87                                     | 2.26                               | 2.26                        |  |  |
|                                                                         | Pt(200)                     | fcc           | 46.24                                    | 46.08                                     | 1.96                               | 1.97                        |  |  |
|                                                                         | Pt(220)                     | fcc           | 67.45                                    | 67.50                                     | 1.39                               | 1.39                        |  |  |
|                                                                         | Pt(311)                     | fcc           | 81.29                                    | 81.30                                     | 1.18                               | 1.18                        |  |  |
|                                                                         | Pt(222)                     | fcc           | 85.71                                    | 85.78                                     | 1.13                               | 1.11                        |  |  |
| Pt/<br>ZrO <sub>2</sub> —<br>500                                        | ZrO <sub>2</sub> (-<br>111) | m             | 28.24                                    | 28.03                                     | 3.16                               | 3.19                        |  |  |
|                                                                         | ZrO <sub>2</sub> (1<br>11)  | m             | 31.54                                    | 31.48                                     | 2.83                               | 2.85                        |  |  |
|                                                                         | ZrO <sub>2</sub> (0<br>02)  | m             | 34.23                                    | 34.17                                     | 2.62                               | 2.63                        |  |  |
|                                                                         | ZrO <sub>2</sub> (0<br>13)  | m             | 55.44                                    | 55.36                                     | 1.66                               | 1.66                        |  |  |
|                                                                         | ZrO <sub>2</sub> (1<br>11)  | t             | 30.48                                    | 30.02                                     | 2.93                               | 2.98                        |  |  |
|                                                                         | ZrO <sub>2</sub> (2<br>02)  | t             | 50.37                                    | 49.98                                     | 1.81                               | 1.83                        |  |  |
|                                                                         | ZrO <sub>2</sub> (1<br>13)  | t             | 59.60                                    | 59.66                                     | 1.55                               | 1.55                        |  |  |
|                                                                         | Pt(111)                     | fcc           | 39.76                                    | 39.49                                     | 2.26                               | 2.29                        |  |  |
|                                                                         | Pt(200)                     | fcc           | 46.24                                    | 45.90                                     | 1.96                               | 1.98                        |  |  |
|                                                                         | Pt(220)                     | fcc           | 67.45                                    | 67.31                                     | 1.39                               | 1.39                        |  |  |
|                                                                         | Pt(311)                     | fcc           | 81.29                                    | 81.02                                     | 1.18                               | 1.19                        |  |  |
|                                                                         | Pt(222)                     | fcc           | 85.71                                    | 85.52                                     | 1.13                               | 1.14                        |  |  |

Reported values correspond to those values found in the JCPDS cards # 13-0307 (monoclinic ZrO<sub>2</sub>), 50-1089 (tetragonal ZrO<sub>2</sub>), and 04-802 (fcc Pt)

The diffraction angles of  $ZrO_2$  in the  $Pt/ZrO_2$ —350 material were in concordance with those positions of pure  $ZrO_2$ —350 (Table 1). Therefore, there are no apparent crystalline changes in the  $ZrO_2$ —350 support during the Pt synthesis; this is important because  $ZrO_2$  can suffer phase transformations. [22] In a similar manner, Pt from the  $Pt/ZrO_2$ —350 material (Fig. 2a) presented the characteristic planes of a face-centered cubic (fcc) structure at

## **ARTICLE**

similar diffraction angles and d-spacings than those reported for Pt (JCPDS card No. 04-802). On the other hand, Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>-500 (Fig. 2b) exhibited peaks related to the crystalline phases of the monoclinic and tetragonal ZrO<sub>2</sub> structure and to the fcc structure of Pt. Nevertheless, almost all ZrO<sub>2</sub> signals shifted toward higher angles compared with the single ZrO<sub>2</sub>-500, and toward lower Pt angles than those reported for Pt (Table 1). These shifts suggest changes in the crystalline network of both Pt and ZrO2, which could cause changes in the electronic interaction between Pt and ZrO<sub>2</sub>-500. This outcome is not unexpected because the modification of ZrO<sub>2</sub> crystalline lattice can be achieved in solution at low temperatures (<100°C).[23] The crystalline lattice parameter of Pt was calculated using Bragg's law applied to the (111) planes, resulting in 3.9291 Å for Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>-350, and 3.9549 Å for Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>-500 (Pt<sup>0</sup>: 3.9231 Å, JCPDS No. 04-802). Regarding dspacings, the values for Pt in the Pt/ZrO2-350 material were similar to that of pure Pt suggesting a poor interaction between the metal and the support, while d-spacings of Pt in the Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>-500 material were larger than that reported for bulk Pt. This expansion is associated with a close vicinity of Pt atoms to  $ZrO_2$  atoms because  $ZrO_2$  has a larger  $d_{111}$  spacing than Pt (2.93) Å for tetragonal structure and 2.84 Å for monoclinic, JCPDS No. 50-1089 and 37-1484, respectively). This proximity between atoms of Pt and ZrO2 is an evidence of a strong interaction between Pt and ZrO<sub>2</sub>, indicating that Pt could also have grown on the ZrO<sub>2</sub> surface. Crystallite sizes were determined using Scherrer's equation applied to the (111) plane, and the resulting sizes were 3.2 nm and 6.5 nm for Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>-350 and Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>-500, respectively.

**Figure 3.** HR-TEM micrographs at bright field for a) Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—350 and c) Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—500. HR-TEM micrographs at a dark field and at lower magnifications for b) Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—350 and d) Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—500. Particle size histograms are presented in an inset of Figs. 3a and 3c for Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—350 and Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—500, respectively.

Bright and dark-field HR-TEM images are illustrated in Figs. 3a and 3b for Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>-350 and in Figs. 3c and 3d for Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>-500. In the bright field (Fig. 3a and 3c), dark semispherical particles were associated with Pt nanoparticles due to their better electronic conductivity than ZrO2, while gray particles were attributed to the support. Both Pt and the support had homogeneous sizes; the ZrO<sub>2</sub>-350 support presented particle sizes of 16±0.8 nm, while ZrO<sub>2</sub>-500 exhibited sizes of 18±1 nm. Histograms of particle size distributed from Pt are presented as an inset in Figs. 3a and 3c; Pt had particle sizes of 3.0±0.3 nm for Pt/ZrO2-350 and 6.0±0.8 nm for Pt/ZrO2-500. The dark-field images (Figs. 3b and 3d) showed that Pt, regardless of the support, is found in the form of small semispherical nanoparticles. Moreover, Pt nanoparticles had a homogeneous size, but they displayed a non-homogeneous distribution on the support surface (Figs. S1 and S2). Pt particles in the Pt/ZrO2-350 material presented agglomerates in the range of few tens of nanometers (10-30 nm), while Pt particles in the Pt/ZrO2-500 displayed a higher particle agglomeration (Fig. S2), in the range 10-50 nm.

**Figure 4.** HR-TEM micrographs at high magnifications and at a bright field for a) Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—350 and c) Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—500. HR-TEM micrographs at high magnifications and at a dark field for b) Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—350 and d) Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—500. EDX elemental analysis performed in selected areas is presented inset figures b) and d) for Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—350 and Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—500, respectively.

The Pt particle size was corroborated by bright- (Fig. 4a and 4c) and dark-field (Fig. 4b and 4d) HR-TEM micrographs at higher magnifications than those presented in Fig. 3. Moreover, bright HR-TEM images were used to determine the interplanar distances of Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—350 (Fig. 4a) and Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—500 (Fig. 4c). For Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—350, the images presented interplanar distances of 0.2273 nm and 0.1955 nm at the dark region in Fig. 4a, and they were indexed to the (111) and (200) planes of Pt (JCPDS No. 04-802). Additionally, two interplanar distances with a similar value

(~0.2543 nm) were found at the gray zone, and they corresponded to the (200) plane of the tetragonal structure of ZrO<sup>2</sup> (JCPDS No. 50-1089). For Pt/ZrO2─500 (Fig. 4c), interplanar distances of 0.2317 nm and 0.2347 nm were calculated and indexed to the (111) plane of Pt. Another distance of 0.2047 nm was found, and it was indexed to the Pt (200) plane. The Pt (111) interplanar distances of the Pt/ZrO2─500 electrocatalyst were larger than those found for Pt (111) in the Pt/ZrO2─350 material. Considering the distances of the support, it is suggested that the increase in the interplanar distances of Pt (111) in the Pt/ZrO2─500 material could be associated with the atomic proximity between Pt and ZrO<sup>2</sup> atoms, where larger interplanar distances could suggest that those Pt nanoparticles are strongly attached to the support and *vice versa.* Additionally, another two interplanar distances were determined in Pt/ZrO2─500 (Fig. 4c); the first distance (0.2671 nm) was indexed to the (200) plane of the monoclinic structure of ZrO<sup>2</sup> (JCPDS no. 13-0307), and the second distance (0.2559 nm) was associated with the (200) plane of the tetragonal ZrO<sup>2</sup> or to the (020) plane of the monoclinic ZrO2.

**Figure 5.** EDX elemental mapping for a) Pt/ZrO2─350 and b) Pt/ZrO2─500.

An elemental composition analysis was made to the Pt/ZrO<sup>2</sup> nanoparticles presented in Fig. 4a and 4c, and the results are presented inset Fig. 4b and 4d for Pt/ZrO2─350 and Pt/ZrO2─500, respectively. In general, Pt/ZrO<sup>2</sup> nanoparticles presented Pt/Zr ratios of 0.93 and 0.63 for Pt/ZrO2─350 and Pt/ZrO2─500, respectively. In addition, EDX mapping analysis to a larger set of nanoparticles (Fig. 5) was performed to determine the mass and atomic compositions, while XRF analysis (Table 2) was made to confirm the mass composition of Pt/ZrO<sup>2</sup> materials. The summary of physicochemical properties is displayed in Table 2 for ZrO<sup>2</sup> supports and Pt/ZrO<sup>2</sup> materials. Regarding atomic percentages by EDX mapping (Fig. 5), the Pt/ZrO2─350 material presented percentages of 1.44% for Pt, 33.93% for Zr and 64.63% for O, the ratio between the atomic % between Zr and O confirmed the formation of ZrO<sup>2</sup> species. Pt/ZrO2─500 displayed a similar trend in the Zr/O ratio suggesting also the presence of ZrO2, and it presented a 1.32 atomic % of Pt. The low Pt content in contrast with the atomic % of ZrO<sup>2</sup> in both materials can suggest that Pt could be decorating the support. The mass composition was determined by EDX (from atomic %) and by TXRF, and the resulting mass compositions are presented in Table 2. The advantage of TXRF analysis over EDX is due to a higher amount of catalytic powder is used for determining the mass composition (around 5 mg). Considering a 100 wt.% as the sum of individual metallic components, the resulting mass percentages were 3.87% (Pt) and 96.13% (Zr) for Pt/ZrO2─350 and 1.64% (Pt) and 98.36% (Zr) for Pt/ZrO2─500. These percentages were in concordance with the obtained by EDX.

**Table 2.** Summary of physicochemical characteristics found for ZrO<sup>2</sup> supports and for Pt/ZrO2─350 and Pt/ZrO2─500.

| Property             | ZrO2─350 | ZrO2─500 | Pt/ZrO2─   | Pt/ZrO2─500 |
|----------------------|----------|----------|------------|-------------|
|                      |          |          | 350        |             |
| Surface Area (SA) /  | 83.057   | 92.354   |            |             |
| m2 g<br>-1           |          |          | -          | -           |
| Pore Volume / cc g-1 | 0.408    | 0.528    | -          | -           |
| Pore radius / Å      | 17.063   | 17.077   | -          | -           |
| Crystallite size/nm  | 16.11    | 18.62    | 3.2        | 6.5         |
| Particle size / nm   | 16±0.8   | 18±1     | 3.0±0.3    | 6.0±0.8     |
| Atomic composition   |          |          | 1.44 (Pt), | 1.32 (Pt),  |
| / % (EDX)            | -        | -        | 98.56 (Zr) | 98.68 (Zr)  |
| Mass composition     |          |          | 3.03 (Pt), | 2.78 (Pt),  |
| / % (EDX)            | -        | -        | 96.97 (Zr) | 97.22 (Zr)  |
| Mass composition     |          |          | 3.87 (Pt), | 1.64 (Pt),  |
| / % (TXRF)           | -        | -        | 96.13 (Zr) | 98.36 (Zr)  |

## **ARTICLE**

**Figure 6.** Deconvolved XPS spectra related to Zr 3d core-levels in a) ZrO<sub>2</sub>—350 and b) ZrO<sub>2</sub>—500 supports without Pt nanoparticles, and in c) Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—350 and d) Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—500. Deconvolved XPS spectra related to Pt 4f core-levels of e) Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—350 and f) Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—500.

Deconvolved XPS spectra of 3d core-levels of Zr in the supports without Pt nanoparticles are presented in Figs. 6a and 6b for ZrO<sub>2</sub>-350 and ZrO<sub>2</sub>-500, respectively. The corresponding Zr 3d core-levels for materials with Pt nanoparticles are displayed in Fig. 6c (Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>-350) and 6d (Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>-500). Both supports displayed mainly core–levels corresponding to Zr<sup>4+</sup> species [24] indicating the existence and predominance of Zr in the form of ZrO2 as was observed by XRD. However, the ZrO<sub>2</sub>-350 material presented a smaller contribution of less oxidized Zr species (labelled as ZrO<sub>x</sub>) at lower binding energies. [25] The positions of Zr<sup>4+</sup> 3d core-levels changed for both materials, the Zr<sup>4+</sup> 3d<sub>5/2</sub> signal appeared at 181.9 for ZrO<sub>2</sub>-350 and at 181.6 eV for ZrO<sub>2</sub>-500. The shift in binding energies could be attributed to the differences in morphological characteristics of both supports, but further experiments should be performed to confirm this statement. The direct synthesis of Pt nanoparticles on these supports had an effect on the supports (Figs. 6c and 6d). Both ZrO<sub>2</sub> materials presented the core-levels related to Zr<sup>4+</sup> species, but the presence of less oxidized ZrO<sub>x</sub> species was more evident. The presence of these oxides with

lower oxidation states could be related to the interaction of ZrO<sub>2</sub> with the ascorbic acid, being partially reduced. Moreover, the core-level photoelectrons for Zr4+ were shifted from 181.9 eV (ZrO<sub>2</sub>-350) to 181.8 eV for Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>-350, and from 181.6 eV for  $ZrO_2$ -500 to 181.9 eV for Pt/ $ZrO_2$ -500. The larger shift in the  $Zr^{4+}$ binding energies of Pt/ZrO2-500 in contrast with Pt/ZrO2-350 could be associated with a partial surface charging of the surface due to low electron conductivity of ZrO2 or to a possible metal/support interaction between Pt and ZrO2. The second possibility is made based on the shifts displayed in the physicochemical characterization such as X-ray diffraction associated with the difference in the ZrO2 structure. The Pt 4f core level XPS spectra for Pt/ZrO2-350 and Pt/ZrO2-500 are shown in Fig. 6e and 6f, respectively. Various doublets for different Pt oxidation states are observed and these doublets were assigned to the  $4f_{7/2}$  and  $4f_{5/2}$  core-level photoelectrons of Pt<sup>0</sup>, Pt<sup>2+</sup>, and Pt<sup>4+</sup>.  $^{[26]}$  Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>-350 presented the Pt<sup>0</sup> 4f<sub>7/2</sub> core-level at 70.7 eV, while Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>-500 presented it at 71.3 eV. The presence of Pt<sup>0</sup> was high on both materials, while the low presence of Pt2+ and Pt4+ species can be related to the exposure of the material to air. promoting the formation of Pt oxides. [26b] Thereby, the shift in binding energies of Pt/ZrO2-500 in both Zr 3d and Pt 4f corelevels respect to Pt/ZrO2-350, could denote a stronger metal/support interaction affected by the differences in the structure presented by ZrO2-350 and ZrO2-500. Additionally, these changes in the electronic structure can modify the d-band center of Pt, work function and Fermi energy. [26c]

# Electrocatalytic evaluation for the methanol oxidation reaction

electrochemical characterization and electrocatalytic The evaluation are presented in Figs. 7 and 8, respectively. Cyclic voltammograms performed in acidic and alkaline media for Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>-350, Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>-500 and commercial Pt/C (Fig. 7a, 7b and 7c, respectively) were obtained prior to the electrocatalytic activity evaluation. Cyclic voltammograms in acidic medium (0.5 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub>) were obtained for a better observation of changes in the surface defects. In this medium, three characteristic regions of bulk Pt were identified: the hydrogen ad/desorption (I), the capacitive region (II), and the region of formation of Pt oxides and their respective reduction (III). [27] In the forward scan, some differences were observed in region I. This region is characterized as being highly sensitive to crystalline defects and/or types of surface sites. [28] Peaks found at 0.06 V and 0.20 V vs. NHE are characteristics of surfaces with {110} and {100} step defects. [29] Therefore, differences in charge presented by Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>-350 and Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>-500 could be related to more crystalline defects presented by the Pt/ZrO2-500 material. Commercial Pt/C presented the hydrogen desorption peak in region I; however, this material did not present well-defined peaks related to step defects, as did the Pt synthesized directly on the ZrO2 supports. In alkaline medium (0.3 M KOH), Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>-350 and Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>-500 displayed differences in charges related to the hydrogen processes (region I) as was observed in acidic medium. Moreover, the main difference was observed in the region related to formation of Pt oxides. Pt/ZrO2-500 presented a higher charge on the peak located at 0.65 V vs. NHE in acidic medium, and at -0.14 V vs.

## **ARTICLE**

NHE in alkaline medium, while  $Pt/ZrO_2$ —350 displayed a higher charge in a subsequent peak found at 0.9 V and 0.05 V vs. NHE in acidic and alkaline medium, respectively. These changes in the region related to formation of Pt oxides can be associated with differences in the nature of the step defects as mentioned above. [28] For the case of Pt/C, it displayed a similar behavior in both media.

**Figure 7.** Cyclic voltammograms in 0.5 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> of a) Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—350, b) Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—500 and c) commercial Pt/C. Scan rate: 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup> in a nitrogen-rich atmosphere. Cyclic voltammograms in 0.3 M KOH are displayed inset figures.

Cyclic voltammograms corresponding to the methanol electrooxidation in alkaline media are presented in Fig. 8a, 8b, and 8c for Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—350, Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—500 and commercial Pt/C, respectively. Figs. 8a and 8b clearly showed that the electrochemical behavior presented by Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—350 and Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—500 for methanol oxidation was similar to that presented by metal nanoparticles supported in highly conductive materials, such as commercial Pt/C (Fig. 8c), as well as by metal oxide supports that employ carbon-based co-supports to improve their electric conductivity.  $^{[12,\ 13,\ 30]}$  This finding denotes that a metal oxide support such as ZrO<sub>2</sub> can be used without the need of any carbonaceous support. This outcome is particularly important for applications that require the imposition of high voltages, such as water splitting,  $^{[31]}$  and unitized regenerative fuel cells.  $^{[32]}$ 

**Figure 8.** Electrocatalytic evaluation of methanol electro-oxidation reaction in alkaline media (0.3 M KOH) as a function of concentration for a) Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—350, b) Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—500 and c) commercial Pt/C. Scan rate: 20 mV s<sup>-1</sup> in a nitrogen-rich atmosphere. A zoom to the region of beginning of the reaction is displayed inset figures.

Potential / V vs. NHE

The onset potential defined as the potential where all the thermodynamic and kinetic barriers become downhill were determined subtracting the faradic current from cyclic voltammograms presented in Fig. 8. In addition, the non-Faradic contribution was determined from cyclic voltammograms in alkaline medium presented inset Fig. 7. A zoom of the region where the reaction started (onset potentials region) is displayed inset Figs. 8a to 8c. The resulting onset potentials of Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>-350 (-0.34 V  $\nu$ s. NHE) and Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>-500 (-0.33 V  $\nu$ s. NHE) were quite similar to the onset potential presented by the commercial Pt/C (-0.39 V vs. NHE), indicating that the nature of the support and/or modification of the metal/support interaction did not have a significant effect on the onset potential. Pt/ZrO2-350 presented an increase in the current density as a function of the increase in methanol concentration from 0.1 M to 2 M (Fig. 8a), showing its maximum current density at 2 M methanol. Higher methanol concentrations (3 M to 5 M) were evaluated, but the activity decreased at concentrations higher than 2 M. This decrease can be explained by the competitive adsorption between OH- and fuel species. According with literature, [33] the fuel oxidation can occur through a bifunctional mechanism, where OH<sub>ads</sub> species facilitate the fuel adsorption. In this sense, the saturation of active sites by methanol species due to a high methanol concentration (higher than 2 M) could inhibit the OH- adsorption and thus, the fuel adsorption and the further electron transfer, causing a decrease of the current density. The maximum current density was 249.3 mA mg<sup>-1</sup> at this concentration, and this value was achieved with an oxidation peak potential of 0.16 V. The MOR evaluation of Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>-500 presented a similar behavior to that presented by Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>-350 (Fig. 8b). The increase in the methanol concentration resulted in an increase in the current density, also showing the maximum current density at 2 M methanol. Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>-500 achieved 255.8 mA mg<sup>-1</sup>, with an oxidation peak potential of 0.07 V. Likewise, commercial Pt/C (Fig. 8c) also presented an increase in the current density with the increase in methanol concentration; however, this increase in current density was less significant from 0.5 M to 1 M and from 1 M to 2 M methanol, suggesting that the active sites of Pt/C started being saturated. Despite this, Pt/C presented the highest current density at 2 M methanol (277.5 mA mg<sup>-1</sup>), with an oxidation peak potential of 0.43 V. As it was said in the physicochemical characterization, the material Pt/ZrO2-500 presents a mixture of tetragonal and monoclinic phases and besides, there is evidence of a strong interaction between the metal and the support. These changes had a significant effect on the electrocatalytic activity of the materials, probably due to the improvement of the electronic characteristics of the material caused by the greater affinity of

The comparison between activities at 2 M methanol is displayed in Fig. 9a. In this figure, it is easily observed that  $Pt/ZrO_2$  materials presented similar onset potentials than commercial Pt/C. In addition, the current densities of  $Pt/ZrO_2$ —350 and  $Pt/ZrO_2$ —500 were relatively similar to those obtained by Pt/C; thus, it can be stated that the onset and current density of electrocatalysts based on Pt synthesized directly on  $ZrO_2$  supports perform similarly to the methanol electro-oxidation. Nevertheless, these materials

platinum with the ZrO<sub>2</sub>-500 support.

presented differences in the oxidation peak potential; this potential is particularly important in fuel cells because lower oxidation peak potentials are needed to achieve a higher power density.  $Pt/ZrO_2$ —350 and commercial Pt/C presented oxidation peak overpotentials of 90 mV and 360 mV compared to the potential value of  $Pt/ZrO_2$ —500. From this point of view,  $Pt/ZrO_2$ —500 can be considered as the best candidate to be used as an anodic electrocatalyst for fuel cell applications.

**Figure 9.** a) Comparison of electrocatalytic activity for 2 M methanol electro-oxidation in alkaline media. b) Stability tests at 2 M methanol by activity loss for Pt/ZrO $_2$ —500 and commercial Pt/C at 500 cycles and 100 mV s<sup>-1</sup> as scan rate, and by chronoamperometry applying 0.07 and 0.43 V vs. NHE (oxidation peak potential), respectively. c) Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy of Pt/ZrO $_2$ —500 and commercial Pt/C at the open circuit potential in a 2 M methanol solution using 0.3 M KOH as an electrolyte.

Moreover, the high activity presented by Pt/ZrO2─500 in alkaline medium can be associated with the improvement in the metal/support interaction, which could modify the electron density of the noble metal atoms towards the support, improving electron transfer and thus, the electrocatalytic activity. Pt/ZrO2─500 presented better activity than Pt/ZrO2─350, and it presented 8% lower current density than commercial Pt/C, but it was achieved at a lower oxidation peak potential (360 mV lower). Thus, the next step was to compare stability between the best Pt/ZrO<sup>2</sup> material (Pt/ZrO2─500) and the commercial Pt/C catalyst.

The stability was determined through two ways: by potentiodynamic and by potentiostatic experiments. The potentiodynamic experiment consisted on calculating the drop in current as a function of cycling by employing the forward anodic peak current of cycle 2 as the initial current (i0); the resulting plot is presented in Fig. 9b. This figure showed that commercial Pt/C presented an activity loss after the first cycles, losing 51% of its initial current after 500 cycles. In contrast to Pt/C, Pt/ZrO2─500 lost only 4% of its initial current. Some authors have proposed that metal oxides could promote a bifunctional mechanism enabling the removal of adsorbed byproducts such as CO, decreasing the CO poisoning effect and thus increasing electrocatalyst durability. [34] Consequently, the high stability presented by the Pt/ZrO2─500 electrocatalyst could be associated with the enhanced electronic properties that promote the electron transfer due to the close vicinity between zirconia and Pt atoms.

**Table 3.** Activity comparison towards methanol electro-oxidation comprising ceramic materials.

| Material      | [MeOH] / M               | Support | Activity               | Reference |
|---------------|--------------------------|---------|------------------------|-----------|
|               |                          |         | comparison             |           |
| Pt/W18O49     | 0.5 (0.5 M H2SO4)        | rGO     | 1.6‒fold vs. Pt/C*     | [35a]     |
| Pt/Ti0.8V0.2N | 1 (0.5 M H2SO4)          | none    | 2.3‒fold vs. Pt/C      | [35b]     |
| Pt/H-TiO2     | 0.5 (0.5 M H2SO4) N-HPCN |         | 2.2‒fold vs. Pt/C      | [35c]     |
| Pt/SnO2       | 0.5 (0.5 M H2SO4)        | CNT     | 1.8‒fold vs.<br>Pt/CNT | [35d]     |
| Pt/TiO2       | 1 (0.5 M H2SO4)          | C       | 1.7‒fold vs. Pt/C      | [35e]     |
| PtSn2-SnO2    | 1 (0.1 M HClO4)          | C       | 3.0‒fold vs. Pt/C      | [35f]     |
| Pt/SnO2       | 0.5 (0.1 M<br>HClO4)     | C       | 3.4‒fold vs. Pt/C      | [35g]     |
| Pt/ZrO2       | 0.2 (0.5 M H2SO4)        | C       | 6.4‒fold vs. Pt/C      | [13]      |
| Pt/ZrO2       | 2 M (0.3 M KOH)          | none    | 0.9‒fold vs. Pt/C      | This work |

rGO: reduced graphene oxide. N-HPCN: nitrogen-enriched hierarchical porous carbon nanowhisker. CNT: carbon nanotubes. C: Vulcan carbon. \* Commercial Pt/C (20 wt.% on Vulcan carbon XC-72).

The potentiostatic experiment consisted on using the chronoamperometry technique at the oxidation peak potentials displayed by Pt/ZrO2─500 and Pt/C during the electro-oxidation of 2 M methanol. The resulting curves (Fig. 9b inset) indicated that Pt/ZrO2─500 had better stability due to it kept a higher current density than Pt/C (almost 2-fold) after 14 000 s of operation. Thus, both potentiostatic and potentiodynamic experiments corroborated the improved stability of Pt/ZrO2─500. Finally, the Pt/ZrO2─500 and commercial Pt/C materials were evaluated by electrochemical impedance spectroscopy, and the Nyquist plot of Pt/ZrO2─500 and Pt/C is presented in Fig. 9c. In the high frequency region, these materials presented similar solution resistances of 36 Ω and 40 Ω for Pt/C and Pt/ZrO2─500 respectively, implying that both materials have a similar diffusion of the electrolyte to the electrocatalyst surface.

An activity comparison between ZrO<sup>2</sup> with other ceramic materials used as support is presented in Table 3. The use of ceramics as non-carbon supports has been limited by their low electrical conductivity [36] and thus, many of the recently reported works related to the use of ceramic materials as supports are focused in the use of different carbon allotropes as co‒supports. Therefore, the majority of these works display an activity increase between 1.6 to 6.4‒folds, while in this work it was of 0.9‒fold. Despite this difference, in this work, it has been demonstrated that ZrO<sup>2</sup> can be used as support without the assistance of any carbon support; however, as shown in Table 3, the activity must be improved. In this sense, we are working in the development of ZrO<sup>2</sup> supports with higher surface area, and in electrocatalyst with higher specific activity than Pt for alcohols oxidation.

#### **Conclusions**

A ZrO<sup>2</sup> support was synthesized by a sol-gel method. The calcination temperature resulted in the formation of a tetragonal phase (350°C) and a mixture of the monoclinic and tetragonal phases of ZrO<sup>2</sup> (500°C). BET surface areas of 83 and 92 m<sup>2</sup> g -1 with pore volumes close to 0.4 and 0.5 cm<sup>3</sup> g -1 were found for ZrO2─350 and ZrO2‒500, respectively. The direct synthesis of Pt nanoparticles on ZrO2‒500 supports promoted shifts in diffraction angles of approximately 0.3°, suggesting changes in the crystalline network of both Pt and ZrO2, which could cause changes in the electronic interaction between Pt and ZrO2─500. This phenomenon was not observed for ZrO2‒350, possibly due to its low atom arrangement that could disfavor the reduction of Pt atoms in its network. The improvement of the metal/support interaction between Pt and ZrO2─500 was further confirmed by HR-TEM due to changes in the interplanar distances of Pt as well as by XPS due to shifts in the energy bindings of 3d and 4f corelevels of Zr and Pt, respectively. The evaluation of the electrocatalytic activity for methanol electro-oxidation in alkaline medium revealed that Pt/ZrO2─500 presented better activity than Pt/ZrO2─350, associated with the enhancement of their electronic properties. Moreover, Pt/ZrO2─500 presented a similar current density (only 8% lower) and onset potential (only 60 mV lower) than commercial Pt/C at 2 M methanol, indicating that the direct formation of Pt on the ZrO2─500 support shows similar activity to the highly conductive commercial Pt/C material. Moreover, the use of Pt/ZrO2─500 as a support had a beneficial effect that decreased the oxidation peak potential, as 90 mV and 360 mV

lower than that presented by Pt/ZrO2─350 and Pt/C, respectively. Additionally, potentiostatic and potentiodynamic experiments shown that Pt/ZrO2─500 has better stability than Pt/C, the Pt/ZrO2─500 electrocatalyst kept 96% of its initial current, while Pt/C kept only 49%, indicating that the use of ZrO2─500 provided high stability to the Pt nanoparticles. This effect was associated with the enhanced electronic properties of Pt/ZrO2─500 by the close vicinity between zirconia and Pt atoms, which could promote the removal of adsorbed methanol byproducts. In summary, we reported the successful synthesis of Pt/ZrO2─500 as a promising anode electrocatalyst for direct alcohol fuel cell applications while avoiding the use of any carbon-based support.

#### **Experimental Section**

#### **Synthesis of ZrO<sup>2</sup> supports**

ZrO<sup>2</sup> nanoparticles were synthesized via sol-gel methodology. In brief, 25 mL 1‒propanol (Sigma-Aldrich, ACS reagent ≥99.5%) was divided equally in 2 Erlenmeyer flasks into a glovebox using nitrogen gas as inert atmosphere (Infra, 5.0 UPD). One of these solutions was bubbled with nitrogen gas before adding 3 mL zirconium (IV) propoxide solution (Sigma-Aldrich, 70 wt.% in 1‒propanol). Then, 10 mL deionized water and 87 μL nitric acid solution (74 mM) were added to the second solution (without deaerating), and it was maintained under agitation for 10 minutes. This solution was later added dropwise to the first solution with slow stirring, and the resulting solution was maintained under agitation for 3 h; later, it was kept motionless for 21 h. After that, the resulting gel was dried in an oven at 90°C for 24 h and then rinsed with 1.5 L deionized water and dried at room temperature overnight. Two calcination temperatures were evaluated: 350°C and 500°C. The resulting ZrO<sup>2</sup> powders were labeled ZrO2─350 and ZrO2─500 and used as support for the synthesis of Pt nanoparticles.

#### **Synthesis of Pt nanoparticles supported on ZrO<sup>2</sup>**

The synthesis of Pt nanoparticles was performed using a polyol-based chemical reduction method. Ethylene glycol (EG, BDH) was used as a reaction medium and co-reducing agent; hexadecyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTAB, Sigma BioXtra ≥99%), ascorbic acid (AA, BDH 99.999%) and chloroplatinic acid hexahydrate (Sigma-Aldrich, ACS reagent ≥37.5%) were employed as the surfactant, reducing agent and Pt precursor salt, respectively. In brief, 0.1 g CTAB and 40 mg AA were dissolved in 10 mL EG, and this solution was transferred to a three-neck flask connected to a condenser. This solution was later magnetically stirred and heated to 160°C. In this phase, 50 mg H2PtCl<sup>6</sup> was dissolved in 5 mL EG and added dropwise to the first solution when it reached the desired temperature. After 10 minutes, 120 mg of ZrO2─350 and/or ZrO2─500 dispersed in 1 mL EG was added to the flask; the resulting solution was kept under agitation for another 3 h. Then, the solution was left to cool at room temperature overnight. Later, this solution was washed 5 times with deionized water and centrifuged at 4000 rpm for 30 minutes between each wash. The resulting powders were dried at 90°C overnight and were labeled Pt/ZrO2─350 and Pt/ZrO2─500.

#### **Physicochemical characterization**

ZrO<sup>2</sup> powders were characterized by X-ray diffraction using a Bruker D8 Advance apparatus operated at 30 kV and 30 mA, Raman spectroscopy using a Horiba Xplora with a CCD detector, and employing a holographic 1200 gr. mm-1 and a λ 532-nm laser. The slit was 100 μm, the pinhole was 300 μm, and the analysis was made using a 10X objective. BET surface area analysis was performed through adsorption/desorption N<sup>2</sup> isotherms employing a Quantachrome® S-BET Autosorb iQ<sup>2</sup> and applying the Barret-Joyner-Halenda (BJH) method. Bruker D8 Advance equipment was used for the XRD characterization of Pt/ZrO2─350 and Pt/ZrO2‒500; mass composition was determined by total reflection X-ray fluorescence (TXRF) analyses using a Bruker S2 PICOFOX spectrometer at 50 kV and 600 μA. Micrographs were obtained by a field-emission high-resolution transmission electron microscope (HR-TEM) JEOL-JEM2200 Fs+Cs with a spherical aberration control for a condensed lens. Elemental composition and mapping were performed by energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX) utilizing a Bruker X-ray detector coupled to an HR-TEM apparatus. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy analysis was made with a Thermo Scientific Escalab 250Xi spectrometer with a six-channel (channeltron) detector. Photoelectrons were generated with a monochromatic Al Ka (1486.68 eV) X-ray source. XPS spectra were normalized to the adventitious carbon C 1s core level value of 284.5 eV, and for deconvolution, a Shirley background was used along with a linear combination of Gaussian and Lorentzian functions for the peak fitting.

#### **Electrocatalytic evaluation**

The electrochemical experiments were performed in a Potentiostat/Galvanostat brand Metrohm model AutoLab 302N. An electrochemical glass cell with water jacket was used in a three-electrode configuration for all electrochemical and electrocatalytic experiments. Pt/ZrO<sup>2</sup> electrocatalysts were deposited on glassy carbon plates in the form of catalytic inks (SPI®, square shape with a geometrical area of 1.2 cm<sup>2</sup> ) prior to use as working electrodes. These catalytic inks were prepared using Pt/ZrO2─350 and Pt/ZrO2‒500 powders, isopropyl alcohol as a dispersant and Nafion® 117 (Aldrich, ~5% in isopropyl alcohol) as a binder in a ratio of 80:7 μL isopropanol to Nafion per milligram of catalyst. Additionally, commercial Pt/C (ETEK, 20 wt.% in Vulcan carbon XC-72R, crystallite size: 3 nm [37]) was used as reference material. In a typical experiment, *x* mg of catalyst was used to prepare the catalytic ink, and 60 μL of ink (for Pt/ZrO<sup>2</sup> materials) or 40 μL (for Pt/C) was transferred to the electrode in layers of 20 μL. The mass contained in such a volume together with the elemental composition by TXRF/EDX was used for calculating the effective Pt mass loading on the electrodes (0.0158 and 0.0366 mg for Pt/ZrO2─350 and Pt/ZrO2─500, respectively). The resulting Pt mass loadings were used to normalize the cyclic voltammograms related to the electrochemical and electrocatalytic evaluation, and the resulting catalyst loadings employed in this work were 13, 30 and 35 μg cm-2 for Pt/ZrO2─350, Pt/ZrO2─500 and Pt/C, respectively. Electrochemical characterization consisted of obtaining cyclic voltammograms in both 0.3 M KOH (J.T. Baker, 87%), and 0.5 M H2SO<sup>4</sup> (J.T. Baker, 99.7%). For this purpose, cyclic voltammograms were performed using a Hg/Hg2SO<sup>4</sup> sat. K2SO<sup>4</sup> (ALS, BAS Inc., 0.63 V *vs*. NHE) electrode as the reference for the acidic medium and a saturated calomel electrode (ALS, BAS Inc., 0.24 V *vs*. NHE) for the alkaline medium, and a graphite rod as the counter electrode. Voltammograms were obtained with an electrochemical window from -0.67 to 0.87 V *vs.* Hg/Hg2SO4, or from -0.95 to 0.45 V *vs*. SCE using a scan rate of 50 mV s-1 . The electrolytes were kept in a N2-rich atmosphere, and the selected number of cycles was 10 for all experiments. Cyclic voltammograms in acidic medium were used to obtain the electrochemically active surface area (EASA) dividing the charge related to the adsorption of hydrogen between the theoretical charge attributed to this process (210 μC cm-2 ). [38] The specific electrochemically active surface areas (ECSA, m<sup>2</sup> g -1 ) were determined through the EASA and catalyst loadings values, resulting in areas of 28.7, 28.1 and 29.3 m<sup>2</sup> g -1 for Pt/ZrO2─350, Pt/ZrO2─500 and Pt/C, respectively.

The electrocatalytic activity towards methanol (J.T. Baker, 99.9%) electrooxidation in alkaline medium was evaluated as a function of methanol concentration from 0.1 M to 2 M. For these experiments, a 0.3 M KOH (J.T. Baker, 87%) solution was used as the electrolyte; thus, a saturated calomel electrode (ALS, BAS Inc.) was used as the reference electrode. Cyclic voltammograms were obtained in a potential range from -0.9 V to 0.4 V *vs.* saturated calomel electrode (SCE) with a scan rate of 20 mV s-1 in a nitrogen-rich environment. The selected number of cycles was 10 for all experiments related to the electrocatalytic evaluation. Stability tests were conducted by cyclic voltammetry (CV) and chronoamperometry (CA), and consisted of oxidizing 2 M methanol at 100 mV s-1 for 500 cycles for CV experiments. For CA experiments, potentials of -0.17 and 0.19 V *vs*. SCE (or 0.07 and 0.43 V *vs*. NHE) were applied for Pt/ZrO2‒500 and Pt/C, respectively during 14 000 seconds, and a rotatory disc electrode was used for CA experiments at a rotatory speed of 1600 rpm. These experiments were performed only to Pt/C and Pt/ZrO2‒500 because it was the best ZrO2-based material. Finally, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was performed to evaluate the differences in the resistance of Pt/C and Pt/ZrO2‒500. A 2 M methanol solution in 0.3 M KOH was used as the electrolytic solution. The cell configuration consisted in using the saturated calomel electrode as the reference electrode, and a graphite rod as counter electrode. In addition, EIS was performed in a frequency range between 100,000 Hz and 1 Hz at the open circuit potential (between -0.4 and -0.6 V *vs.* NHE for both materials). The reported values related to the solution resistances were determined directly from the Nyquist plots.

### **Acknowledgements**

The authors gratefully acknowledge to the Mexican Council of Science and Technology (CONACYT) for the support of this work through the project Infraestructura 2018 Grant No. 293764 and Ciencia Básica Grant No. 241601. The technical support for TEM images offered by Carlos Elías Ornelas Gutiérrez and Cesar Leyva Porras from the nanotechnology laboratory (nanotech México) at Centro de Investigación en Materiales Avanzados S. C, and technical support for XPS analysis offered by Luis Gerardo Silva Vidaurri from the Laboratorio XPS (CIMAV Monterrey).

**Keywords:** Zirconia • Pt/ZrO2 • methanol electro-oxidation • supportless • nanoparticles

- [1] M. K. Debe, *Nature* **2012**, 486, 43-51.
- [2] a) Y. Shao, G. Yin, Y. Gao, *J. Power Sources* **2007**, 171, 558-566. b) Y. Shao, J. Liu, Y. Wang, Y. Lin, *J. Mater. Chem*. **2009**, 19, 46-59.
- [3] L. M. Roen, C. H. Paik, T. D. Jarvi, *Electrochem. Solid State Lett*. **2004**, 7, A19-A22.
- [4] S. Sharma, B. G. Pollet, *J. Power Sources* **2012**, 208, 96-119.
- [5] J. Wang, G. Yin, Y. Shao, S. Zhang, Z. Wang, Y. Gao, *J. Power Sources* **2007**, 171, 331-339.
- [6] L. Pan, H. Qiu, C. Dou, Y. Li, L. Pu, J. Xu, Y. Shi, *Int. J. Mol. Sci*. **2010**, 11, 2636-2657.
- [7] E. Antolini, *Appl. Catal. B* **2010**, 100, 413-426.
- [8] Y.-J. Wang, D. P. Wilkinson, J. Zhang, *Chem. Rev*. **2011**, 111, 7625- 7651.
- [9] Horacio R. Conti, Ernerto R. Gonzalez, *Direct Alcohol Fuel Cells, Materials, Performance, Durability and Applications*. Ed. Springer Netherlands, **2014**.

- [10] a) J. Pan, H. Zhang, W. Chen, M. Pan, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2010**, 35, 2796-2801. b) A. Saccà, I. Gatto, A. Carbone, R. Pedicini, E. Passalacqua, *J. Power Sources* **2006**, 163, 47-51.
- [11] S. Hara, M. Miyayama, *Solid State Ion*. **2004**, 168, 111-116.
- [12] D.-J. Guo, X.-P. Qiu, W.-T. Zhu, L.-Q. Chen, *Appl. Catal. B* **2009**, 89, 597-601.
- [13] R.S. Amin, A. E. Fetohi, R.M. Abdel Hameed, K.M. El-Khatib, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2016**, 41, 1846-1858.
- [14] R. Wang, K. Wang, H. Wang, Q. Wang, J. Key, V. Linkov, S. Ji, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2013**, 38, 5783-5788.
- [15] S. Mostafa, J. R. Croy, H. Heinrich, B. Rodan Cuenya, *Appl. Catal. A* **2009**, 366, 353-362.
- [16] a) A. Gossard, F. Grasland, X. Le Goff, A. Grandjean, G. Toquer, *Solid State Sci*. **2016**, 55, 21-28. b) N. C. Sagaya Selvam, A. Manikandan, L. J. Kennedy, J. J. Vijaya, *J. Colloid Interface Sci*. **2013**, 389, 91-98.
- [17] E. Fernández López, V. Sánchez Escribano, M. Panizza, M. M. Carnasciali, G. Busca, *J. Mater. Chem*. **2001**, 11, 1891-1897.
- [18] B.-K. Kim, H.-O. Hamaguchi, *Phys. Stat. Sol. B* **1997**, 203, 557-563.
- [19] Y.-F. Lin, F.-L. Liang, *CrystEngComm* **2015**, 17, 678-685.
- [20] W. Li, H. Huang, H. Li, W. Zhang, H. Liu, *Langmuir* **2008**, 24, 8358-8366.
- [21] S. K. Das, M. K. Bhunia, A. K. Sinha, A. Bhaumik, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2009**, 113, 8918-8923.
- [22] a) M. H. Bocanegra-Bernal, A. Reyes-Rojas, A. Aguilar-Elguézabal, E. Torres-Maye, J. Echeberria, *Int. J. Refract. Metals Hard Mater.* **2012**, 35, 315-318. b) A. Reyes-Rojas, E. Torres-Maye, O. Solís-Canto, A. Aguilar-Elguézabal, M. H. Bocanegra-Bernal, *Int. J. Refract. Metals Hard Mater*. **2012**, 35, 270-278.
- [23] M. Yoshimura, T. Noma, K. Kawabata, S. Somiya, *J. Mater. Sci. Lett*. **1987**, 6, 465-467.
- [24] W. Ma, F.W Herbert, S.D. Senanayake, B. Yildiz, *Appl. Phys. Lett*. **2015**, 106, 101603.
- [25] S. Bae, Y.G. Yoo, J. Park, S. Park, I. Nam, J.W. Han, J. Yi, *Chem. Commun.* 2017, 53, 11767-11770.
- [26] a) K. S. Kim, N. Winograd, R.E. Davis, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **1971**, 93, 6296-6297. b) Y.S. Kim, A. Bostwick, E. Rotenberg, P.N. Ross, S.C. Hong, B.S. Mun, *J. Chem. Phys.* **2010**, 133, 034501. c) S. Zhang, S. Guo, H. Zhu, D. Su, S. Sun, *J. Am. Chem. Soc*. **2012**, 134, 5060-5063.
- [27] K. Domke, E. Herrero, A. Rodes, J. M. Feliu, *J. Electroanal. Chem*. **2003**, 552, 115-128.
- [28] J. Clavilier, A. Rodes, K. El Achi, M.A. Zamakhchari, *J. Chim. Phys*. **1991**, 88, 1291-1337.
- [29] a) A. Björling, E. Ahlberg, J.M. Feliu, *Electrochem.Commun*. **2010**, 12, 359-361. b) M. Hara, U. Linke, Th. Wandlowski, *Electrochim. Acta* **2007**, 52, 5733-5748.
- [30] a) H. Song, X. Qiu, F. Li, *Appl. Catal. A* **2009**, 364, 1-7. b) Y. Bai, J. Wu, J. Xi, J. Wang, W. Zhu, L. Chen, X. Qiu, *Electrochem. Commun*. **2005**, 7, 1087-1090.
- [31] a) R. D. L. Smith, M. S. Prévot, R. D. Fagan, S. Trudel, C. P. Berlinguette, *J. Am. Chem. Soc*. **2013**, 135, 11580-11586. b) M. Gong, Y. Li, H. Wang, Y. Liang, J. Z. Wu, J. Zhou, J. Wang, T. Regier, F. Wei, H. Dai, *J. Am. Chem. Soc*. **2013**, 135, 8452-8455. c) R. Valdez, A. Olivas, D. B. Grotjahn, E. Barrios, N. Arjona, R. Antaño, M.T. Oropeza-Guzman, *Appl. Surf. Sci*. **2017**, 426, 980-986.
- [32] a) S.-Y. Huang, P. Ganesan, H.-Y. Jung, B. N. Popov, *J. Power Sources* **2012**, 198, 23-29. b) G. Chen, S. R. Bare, T. E. Mallouk, *J. Electrochem. Soc*. **2002**, 149, A1092-A1099.
- [33] E. Habibi, H. Razmi, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2012**, 37, 16800-16809.
- [34] a) M. S. Ahmed, S. Jeon, *ACS Catal*. **2014**, 4, 1830-1837. b) J.-M. Léger, *J. Appl. Electrochem*. **2001**, 31, 767-771. c) H. Hitmi, E. M. Belgsir, J.-M. Léger, C. Lamy, R. O. Lezna, *Electrochim. Acta* **1994**, 39, 407-415. d) N. M. Markovic, H. A. Gasteiger, P. N. Ross Jr., X. Jiang, I. Villegas, M. J. Waver, *Electrochim. Acta* **1995**, 40, 91-98. e) C. Roth, A.J. Papworth, I. Hussain, R.J. Nichols, D.J. Schiffrin, *J. Electroanal. Chem*. **2005**, 581, 79-85.

- [35] a) Y. Wang, S. Wang, F. Li, Y. Wang, H. Zhang, C: Sun, *ACS Omega* **2018**, 3, 16850-16857. b) G. Feng, J. Xiao, Z. Pan, W. Li, S. Wu, J. Li, C. Chen, Y. Lin, G. Hu, Y. Xu, *Electrochim. Acta* **2018**, 259, 1162-1169. c) J. Zhang, X. Liu, A. Xing, J. Liu, *ACS Appl. Energy Mater.* **2018**, 1, 2758- 2768. d) H. Wang, X. Wang, J. Zheng, F. Peng, H. Yu, *J. Nanosci. Nanotechnol*. **2015**, 15, 3662-3669. e) N. Su, X. Hu, J. Zhang, H. Huang, J. Cheng, J. Yu, C. Ge, *Appl. Surf. Sci*. **2017**, 399, 403-410. f) H. Su, T.- H. Chen, *Chin. Chem. Lett*. **2016**, 27, 1083-1086. g) V. S. Menshchikov, S.V. Belenov, V.E. Guterman, I.N. Novomlinskiy, A.K. Nevel'skaya, A. Yu. Nikulin, *Russian J. Electrochem*. **2018**, 54, 937-948.
- [36] S. Samad, K. S. Loh, W. Y. Wong, T. K. Lee, J. Sunarso, S. T. Chong, W. R. W. Daud, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2018**, 43, 7823-7854.
- [37] J. Maya-Cornejo, R. Carrera-Cerritos, D. Sebastián, J. Ledesma-García, L. G. Arriaga, A. S. Aricò, V. Baglio, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2016**, 42, 27919-27928.
- [38] B. Abida, L. Chirchi, S. Baranton, T. W. Napporn, H. Kochkar, J.-M. Léger, A. Ghorbel, *Appl. Catal. B* **2011**, 106, 609-615.

## **ARTICLE**

## **Entry for the Table of Contents**

## **ARTICLE**

A. Aguilar-Vallejo, L. Álvarez-Contreras, M. Guerra-Balcázar, J. Ledesma-García, L. G. Arriaga, N. Arjona, S. Rivas

Page No. - Page No.

Electrocatalytic evaluation of highly stable Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub> electrocatalysts synthesized without the assistance of any carbon support for the methanol oxidation reaction

ZrO<sub>2</sub> calcined at 350°C and 500°C with 82 and 92 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup> of surface area were successfully used as a non-carbon based support for Pt electrocatalysts. The resulting Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub> materials displayed similar activity than a commercial Pt/C catalyst, but Pt/ZrO<sub>2</sub>—500 displayed a higher stability during the methanol oxidation in alkaline medium.