---
source: Ali 等 - 2017 - Porous CarbonrGO Composite An Ideal Support Material of Highly Efficient Palladium Electrocatalyst.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 104.052s
generated: 2026-01-09T04:34:04.852984Z
---

DOI: 10.1002/celc.201700879

# Porous Carbon/rGO Composite: An Ideal Support Material of Highly Efficient Palladium Electrocatalysts for the Formic Acid Oxidation Reaction\*\*

Hassan Ali,<sup>[a]</sup> Shahid Zaman,<sup>[a]</sup> Imran Majeed,<sup>[a]</sup> Fehmida K. Kanodarwala,<sup>[c]</sup> Muhammad Amtiaz Nadeem,<sup>[b]</sup> John Arron Stride,\*<sup>[c]</sup> and Muhammad Arif Nadeem\*<sup>[a]</sup>

Catalyst support materials play an important role in the electrochemical performance of the catalyst in fuel cells. Herein, we present a synergistic effect of surface area and electronic conductivity on the efficiency of a carbon support material towards its application in direct formic acid fuel cells. A composite of reduced graphene oxide (rGO) and metal organic framework (MOF-5) derived porous carbon (PC) was used as a novel support material for a high dispersion of palladium nanoparticles. The rGO<sub>1</sub>-C<sub>1</sub> electrocatalyst, which consists of an equal ratio of PC and rGO, was found to be the most effective for the formic acid electro-oxidation reaction. The obtained mass specific activity for Pd/rGO<sub>1</sub>-C<sub>1</sub> (969.76 mA mg<sup>-1</sup>) is 1.52

times higher than for Pd/rGO (639.5 mAmg $^{-1}$ ) and 2.63 times higher than Pd/C (368.73 mAmg $^{-1}$ ) synthesized under the same conditions and at given onset peak potentials. The Pd/rGO $_1$ -C $_1$  electrocatalyst was also found to be much more stable than other catalysts as evidenced by chronoamperometric measurements for up to 3000 s. The high activity and stability of the catalyst fabricated over the composite carbon support is due to a synergism between the Pd metal and the composite support toward charge transfer, where highly porous carbon provides a high surface area and the rGO is highly conductive, thereby boosting the electrical properties of the catalyst.

#### 1. Introduction

Fuel cell (FC) systems have found application in the fields of transportation and electronic devices. [1] FCs are also potential candidates as substitutes for conventional power devices including batteries. However, problems such as catalyst poisoning, low activity and the high cost of noble metal catalysts such as Pt, hinder the large scale application of fuel cell technologies. [2] Amongst the various types of fuel cells, direct methanol fuel cells (DMFCs) and direct formic acid fuel cells (DFAFC) are regarded as copious energy sources due to their simple construction, efficient energy conversion and room temperature operating conditions. [3]

DMFCs suffer serious issues including fuel crossover through Nafion® membranes, low operating methanol concentrations, the high cost of Pt catalyst and CO poisoning. In

comparison, direct formic acid fuel cells are considered to be superior over DMFCs due to the non-flammability of formic acid at room temperature, non-toxicity at lower formic acid concentration, very little or no fuel crossover and the use of Pd catalysts that are cheaper (ca. Pt price  $\times$  0.75) than Pt. It also suffers less CO poisoning compared to Pt based catalysts.

Efforts are being made to improve the efficiency of Pd based catalysts to a level required for commercialization. Alloy formation has been adopted to reduce the cost and efficiency of Pd catalysts via a well-established synergism mechanism. For instance, Pd–Pt nano-dendrites, Alloy Pd–Pt nanocubes, Ti supported bimetallic Pd–Pt/Ti networks, graphene supported 3-dimensional Pt on Pd-bimetallic nanodendrites are few examples that have been studied, recently.

Catalytic activity of Pd based catalysts can also be enhanced by increasing the interaction between metal particles and the support material, increasing the electrochemical surface area of the catalyst and increasing electrical conductivity of the support material. [6] Carbon black and activated charcoal have been frequently used as support materials for catalyst design.

Activated charcoal has a large surface area and carbon black has conductivity in the range  $10^{-1}$  to  $10^2~(\Omega\,\text{cm})^{-1}$ , making them the most suitable carbon supports. Recently, carbon nanotubes (CNTs) and graphene have been used in the fuel cell applications as support materials, due to their state of the art electrical and mechanical properties. CNTs and graphene, having greater surface area and very little resistivity, are still unsuitable for practical applications due to their relatively high costs as they require pretreatment and activation before use.

The use of Metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) in recent years has been uplifted in the areas of energy storage and conversion

E-man: manadeem@qau.eau [b] Dr. M. A. Nadeem

Department of Environmental Sciences, Quaid-i-Azam University, Islamabad 45320, Pakistan and

SABIC-Corporate Research and Development (CRD) at KAUST, Thuwal 23955, KSA

[c] Dr. F. K. Kanodarwala, Prof. J. A. Stride School of Chemistry, University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia

E-mail: j.stride@unsw.edu.au

[\*\*] rGO = reduced graphene oxide.

Supporting information for this article is available on the WWW under https://doi.org/10.1002/celc.201700879

<sup>[</sup>a] H. Ali, S. Zaman, I. Majeed, Dr. M. A. Nadeem Catalysis and Nanomaterials Lab 27, Department of Chemistry, Quaid-i-Azam University, Islamabad 45320, Pakistan E-mail: manadeem@qau.edu.pk

processes <sup>9a</sup>. Recently, our group and others utilized the metal organic frameworks (MOFs) for the bulk production of highly porous and high surface area carbon.[8] However, such highly porous carbon materials are mostly used for gas adsorption and supercapacitor applications. Jun li and co-workers used ZIF-8 as a source of porous carbon and for the first time utilized it as a support material of Pd/PC catalyst for methanol oxidation reaction<sup>[9]b</sup>. Recently, we have also utilized MOF derived carbon as a support material of highly efficient catalysts for fuel cell applications. [10] In these studies, we have found that the surface area and pore size of the MOF derived carbon are factors that enhance the activity and stability of catalysts. We also have demonstrated the use of high BET surface area (1453 m<sup>2</sup>g<sup>-1</sup>) carbon support for the fabrication of PtFe/PC-900 catalyst that showed an electrochemical surface area of 105.32 m<sup>2</sup>g<sup>-1</sup>; almost double that of commercially-obtained Vulcan carbon (XC-72) supported Pt<sup>[11]</sup> and La<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> promoted Pd/rGO catalyst with electrochemical surface area of 57.80 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>.<sup>[12]</sup>

Greater surface area and porosity are essential for the maximum dispersion of metal nanoparticles, whilst the high electronic conductivity of the support material is also necessary for the high efficiency of catalyst. [13] Although MOF derived carbon demonstrates a high surface area and diverse pore size, its electronic conductivity is less than other carbon materials, like graphene.

Here in this study, for the first time, we have investigated composite material by mixing high surface area carbon with the reduced graphene oxide (rGO). By using this composite material, we have designed a highly active and stable Pd based electrocatalyst for DFAFC applications. The surface area of the composite support was improved by using highly porous carbon derived from carbonization of MOF-5 in an inert atmosphere while the electrical conductivity was enhanced by adding the reduced graphene oxide (rGO) prepared by the exfoliation of graphite through the modified Hummers method.<sup>[14]</sup> This novel composite support, comprising of both porous carbon derived from MOF-5 and rGO, can easily be prepared in the laboratory at relatively low cost and has been found to be an excellent support material towards fabrication of Pd catalyst for direct formic acid fuel cell applications.

#### 2. Results and Discussion

#### 2.1. Material Characterization

Powder X-ray diffraction (PXRD) is an efficient technique to determine the phase purity and crystallinity of the sample. Figure S1 presents the PXRD pattern of the synthesized MOF-5, indicating that it is consistent with that given in the literature. PXRD of porous carbon derived from MOF-5 and rGO prepared by the Hummer's method is shown in the Figure S2. A broad diffraction peak at  $2\theta = 25^{\circ}$  and  $44^{\circ}$  with corresponding crystallographic values of (hkl = 002) and (hkl = 100) respectively are the characteristics peaks of carbon materials. These peaks are assigned to disordered stacks of poorly crystalline rGO nanosheets and a broader peak at the

**Figure 1.** PXRD pattern of all synthesized catalysts with different rGO/C ratios.

same  $2\theta = 25^{\circ}$  value is due to the amorphous nature of carbon derived from MOF-5. Figure 1 shows various PXRD spectra of synthesized porous carbon and rGO nanocomposite supported palladium nanostructures. Peaks at  $2\theta = 40^{\circ}$  (hkl = 111) and  $46.8^{\circ}$  (hkl = 200) correspond to single crystallographic planes of fcc Pd metal that resemble those of JCPD No. 05-0681. The presence of functional groups (i.e. carbonyl, acetate, hydroxyl etc.) on the rGO nanosheets enhaces the interaction of Pd nanoparticles with the support surface and hence increasing the crystalline nature of Pd nanoparticles. This results in the increase in the intensity of Pd peaks and the intensity increases as the concentration of rGO increases in the composite. Also the shrapness of the Pd peaks increases with the increase in rGO concentrations which reveals the increase in particle size of the Pd nanoparticles.

Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) and Raman spectroscopy was used to determine the functional groups present as active sites on synthesized rGO nanosheets. FTIR spectrum of rGO is shown in Figure S3. A relatively strong and broad peak at 1704 cm<sup>-1</sup> accompanied by a peak at 1618 cm<sup>-1</sup> are attributed to carbonyl (C=O) and aromatic C=C functional groups respectively. These values are in good agreement with the literature.[16] The broad absorption peak between 3000 to 3500 cm<sup>-1</sup> is due to the acidic OH<sup>-</sup> and moisture content. So, FTIR spectra not only confirm the formation of rGO, it also shows that rGO has sp<sup>2</sup> as well as sp<sup>3</sup> bonded carbon atoms. Raman spectroscopy was used to analyze the disorder and graphitic nature of synthesized rGO. Raman spectrum of rGO shows two prominent bands, one at 1337 cm<sup>-1</sup>(D band) due to the disordered staking of rGO sheets and a characteristic graphitic inphase lattice vibration band<sup>[17]</sup> (G-band) due to the presence of sp<sup>2</sup> carbon atoms in rGO appears at 1571 cm<sup>-1</sup> (Figure S4). These D and G bands values correspond with literature reports.[18] Raman spectra of Pd/rGO<sub>1</sub>-C<sub>1</sub> is shown in the Figure S4, which shows that the intensity of the D-band (1338 cm<sup>-1</sup>) is reduced as a result of a reduction in oxygenated

functional groups present on rGO by NaBH<sub>4</sub>. NaBH<sub>4</sub> was used to reduce the palladium ions which corresponds to the reduction in the size of the rGO sheets and to the chemical interactions of the Pd nanoparticles and the rGO. The reduction in oxygenated functional groups enhances the sp<sup>2</sup> character, increase the conductivity and electron transport of rGO nanosheets. Also shifting of the G-band (1558 cm<sup>-1</sup>) to lower Raman shift values confirms the interaction of Pd-rGO nanocomposite. A broad band between 400-600 cm<sup>-1</sup> is due to small quantity of Pd oxide present in the catalyst. The specific surface area and pore volume were characterized by N<sub>2</sub>-adsorption/desorption isotherm. Type-IV isotherm was observed for synthesized PC indicating the existence of both micropores and mesopores. The obtained BET surface area is 1455 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup> with the total pore volume of  $2.031\,\text{cm}^3\,\text{g}^{-1}$ . A linear increase in the adsorption capacity up to P/Po = 0.5 and a slight hysteresis of desorption curve indicate the presence of mesopores. The pore size distribution plot of PC is also presented [Figure S5 (b)] which indicates three main regions including ultramicropores (0.45-0.9 nm), micropores (0.9-2 nm) and mesopores (2-3.7 nm). The pore size distribution plot further illustrates that the ultramicropores and micropores are the major portion of the total porosity. Such a pore size is suitable for the incorporation of molecules like FA and release of products i.e. CO2.

Quantitative effect of rGO on the electrical properties of the nanocomposite may be analyzed by measuring the electrical conductivity of the synthesized porous carbon-rGO composite. The electrical conductivity of the PC-rGO composite dramatically increases upon increasing the rGO concentrations from 25 wt.% to 100 wt.% and it starts to saturate above 50 wt.% as shown in Figure S6. It can be explained that the electrical conductivity of the composites increases significantly once the conductive networks of rGO have been formed above a certain critical concentration of rGO in the composite.

Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) is a useful tool to take into account of surface morphology of the nanocomposite. SEM analyses of rGO, porous carbon and Pd/rGO<sub>1</sub>-C<sub>1</sub> catalyst are shown in Figure 2 (a-c). The SEM images of rGO shows the stacked packing sheets while the irregular spongy morphology of porous carbon has been observed as expected due to its porous nature. At higher magnification, well-dispersed and homogeneous electrocatalyst dispersion was observed on the micro structured rGO/porous carbon composite (Figure 2 (c)). This SEM image also visibly shows the rGO sheets and small stacks of rGO sheets were visible from Figure 2 (a) and the cavity like pores in porous carbon images were observed as shown in the Figure 2 (b).

To further explore the surface morphology, particle size of the Pd nanoparticles and their dispersion on the rGO-C nanocomposite, TEM micrographs at different resolution were captured and shown in Figure 3 (a, b & c). All the TEM images showed fairly homogeneous dispersion of Pd nanoparticles on the support surface. The Pd particle size was estimated from the TEM images and lies in the range of 2–7 nm. Figure 3 (c) shows typical TEM image with the inset showing particle size distribution histogram. The average particle size calculated for approximately 70 particles is 3.3 nm. Porous carbon is distinct

Figure 2. SEM images of rGO (a), porous carbon (b), and Pd/rGO<sub>1</sub>-C<sub>1</sub> (c).

Figure 3. TEM micrographs of Pd/rGO<sub>1</sub>-C<sub>1</sub> at different resolutions (a, b, c). Inset in (c): Particle size distribution graph.

in all the TEM images and the rGO nanosheets were also maintained following reduction of Pd ions with NaBH<sub>4</sub> and Pd immobilization as evidenced by the images of  $Pd/rGO_1-C_1$ , Figures 3 (a–c).

To investigate chemical composition of the Pd/rGO<sub>1</sub>-C<sub>1</sub> catalyst, EDX spectrum is shown in the Figure S7 with inset showing the elemental composition of the catalyst. It was estimated from EDX spectrum that Pd/rGO<sub>1</sub>-C<sub>1</sub> catalysts have a surface elemental composition with carbon 60.70%, oxygen 30.68%, and palladium 8.5%. Oxidation states of the elements and types of bonding between carbon atoms, present in the catalyst were revealed by XPS analysis (Figure 4). The spectrum

**Figure 4.** Detailed XPS spectra of Pd/rGO<sub>1</sub>-C<sub>1</sub>; for C1s (a), Pd3d (b), and O1s (c).

originating from C1s is presented in Figure 4a. Peaks centered at binding energies between 284-285 eV are mostly assigned to graphitic or sp<sup>2</sup> carbon species in aromatic rings. Peaks centered in the region of binding energy (286-292 eV) are usually assigned to oxygenated organic species such as hydroxyl, epoxide and carboxylic entities<sup>[19]</sup> and peaks at 283 eV are assigned to metal carbide bond. [20] The assignment of various peaks depending upon the nature of carbon is as follows; C=C (284.8 eV) C-C bonds (285.28 eV), C-OH/C-O-C/ O-C=O bonds (287.07 eV), C=O/O-C-O (288.51 eV) C=O-COO bonds (291.68 eV). The C-Pd peak (282.86 eV) in the XPS spectrum is due to the carbon bonded to Pd atoms. Figure (4b) shows two well resolved asymmetrical XPS peaks of Pd 3d in the region of 335-343 eV corresponding to Pd (3d<sub>5/2</sub>) and Pd  $(3d_{3/2})$ , with a spin-orbit splitting of about 5-6 eV. The Pd  $(3d_{5/2})$ signal gives three peaks at 335.587, 336.33 and 337.9 eV that can be assigned to Pd<sup>0</sup>, (PdO, PdO<sub>ads</sub>) and PdO<sub>2</sub> species, respectively.[21] A slight shift in binding energy value for Pd (from 335 to 335.6 eV) is due to the metal carbide bond

formation. XPS spectra of O1s is shown in Figure 4, which shows a doublet at 531.56 and 533.44 eV, which are assigned to organic C—O and C=O, respectively.

#### 2.2. Electrochemical Studies

The advantage of using Pd as a catalyst for electro-oxidation of formic acid is that the mechanism mainly follows the dehydrogenation reaction (HCOOH $\rightarrow$ CO $_2+2H^++2e^-$ ); where the FA gets oxidized to CO $_2$  directly and there are fewer chances of CO intermediate which can cause the poisoning of the catalysts such as Pt. The Pd nanoparticles supported on a carbon-rGO nanocomposite ratio close to 1:1 shows the highest catalytic activity due to the high surface area provided by the porous nature of carbon and excellent electron transport by the rGO.

Electrochemical active surface area (ECSA) of electrocatalysts is important in the elucidation of the catalyst performance. A high value of ECSA generally implies that the catalyst can show the higher activities towards electro-catalysis of formic acid. In order to calculate the ECSA, cyclic voltammetry (CV) was used. Due to the low affinity of CO to adsorb on the surface of Pd, hydrogen adsorption/desorption method was used to find out the ECSA.[15] To measure ECSA of the electrocatalysts, CV experiments were performed in 0.5 mol L<sup>-1</sup> aqueous H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> solution at a scan rate of 20 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. The Figure 5a shows the voltammograms obtained for the catalysts; Pd/rGO<sub>1</sub>-C<sub>1</sub>, Pd/rGO and Pd/C. These were then used in the ECSA estimation. The redox peak of hydrogen adsorption/ desorption appeared in the negative potential range. For all the designated catalysts, strong adsorption and desorption peaks can be seen in the potential range of -0.2 to 0.10 V, Figure 5a. The hydrogen adsorption/desorption process occurred at the catalytically active sites (Pd) available at the surface of catalysts which can also be determined by integrating charge density of the peaks. The estimation of ECSA of the electro-catalysts was done by using the area of H2 desorption peak; the detailed method can be found in our previous report.[11] The increasing order of calculated ECSA of the three electro-catalysts is Pd/  $rGO_1-C_1$  (135 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>) > Pd/rGO (115 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>) > Pd/C (79 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>). The highest ECSA for the Pd/rGO<sub>1</sub>-C<sub>1</sub> is attributed to the well dispersion of Pd nanoparticles as evidenced by TEM images at the surface of porous carbon and rGO sheets; hence exposing greater number of active sites for H<sub>2</sub> adsorption/desorption.

The carbon monoxide (CO) striping experiments were also conducted to check the catalyst poisoning; these experiments also helped to evaluate the mechanism path for the electro-oxidation of formic acid. The CO striping experiment was performed by continuously flowing the CO for 20 min through the electrolyte solution (0.5 mol L<sup>-1</sup> aqueous H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub>) at a constant potential (-0.15 V). The N<sub>2</sub> gas was bubbled through the electrolyte solution to remove any of the dissolved CO followed by CV experiments of the Pd/rGO<sub>1</sub>-C<sub>1</sub> catalyst run between the potential window of -0.2-1.0 V at a scan rate of 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup>, Figure 5b. The CV curves show that during 1<sup>st</sup> cycle of the scan, an intense peak at 0.71 V is observed which is attributed to the oxidation of pre-adsorbed CO. This peak was

Figure 5. Cyclic voltammogram curves for ECSA determination in 0.5 mol L<sup>-1</sup>  $H_2SO_4$  at a scan rate 20 mV s<sup>-1</sup> (a); showing CO stripping of Pd/rGO<sub>1</sub>-C<sub>1</sub> in 0.5 mol L<sup>-1</sup> H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> at a scan rate 20 mV s<sup>-1</sup> (b); electro-oxidation of formic acid for different nominal concentration ratios of rGO-C supported Pd catalysts (c): current density measurement for synthesized catalysts (d): and mass specific activity curves for synthesized catalysts in 0.25 mol L<sup>-1</sup> H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub>/ 1.0 mol L<sup>-1</sup> HCOOH solution at scan rate 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup> (e).

then almost diminished in the 2<sup>nd</sup> cycle indicating that CO is very loosely adsorbed on the Pd surface. The CV curves for the formic acid electro-oxidation are shown in Figure 5c. All the subjected electro-catalysts showed a comparable behavior towards formic acid electroxidation. The obtained current density for the electro-catalysts follows the increasing order as;  $Pd/rGO_1-C_1 > Pd/rGO_4-C_1 > Pd/rGO_3-C_2 > Pd/rGO_2-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_1-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_1-C_1-C_1-C_1-C_1-C_1-C_1-C_1-C_1-C$  $C_4 > Pd/C_{100}$ .

The current density values for the most active electrocatalysts Pd/rGO<sub>1</sub>-C<sub>1</sub> along with the reference catalysts i.e. Pd/ rGO and Pd/C is shown in the Figure 5d. The calculated peak current density of Pd/rGO<sub>1</sub>-C<sub>1</sub> (522.4 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) in the forward scan is 1.61 times higher than Pd/rGO (324.25 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) and 2.24 times higher than Pd/C (233.70 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>). A comparison of current densities obtained for all the synthesized catalysts is presented in the Table 1. For the Pd/rGO<sub>1</sub>-C<sub>1</sub> catalyst, a relatively broad oxidation peak in the potential range of 0.1-0.5 V (anodic peak,  $A_{\rm p}$ ) at 0.29 V in the anodic scan is attributed to the oxidation of formic acid to CO<sub>2</sub> via dehydrogenation pathway.

| <b>Table 1.</b> Comparison of current density and $l_{\rm f}/l_{\rm b}$ values of the prepared catalysts for formic acid oxidation. |                                                |                                            |                            |                                                                          |                                                   |  |  |  |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|----------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|--|--|--|
| Catalyst                                                                                                                            | Onset potential [V]                            | Current<br>density<br>[A m <sup>-2</sup> ] | Offset<br>potential<br>[V] | Current<br>density<br>at offset po-<br>tential<br>[mA cm <sup>-2</sup> ] | I <sub>f</sub> /<br>I <sub>b</sub> <sup>[a]</sup> |  |  |  |
| Pd/C                                                                                                                                | 0.1<br>0.167 (peak current<br>potential)       | 196<br>233                                 | 0.46                       | 154                                                                      | 1.51                                              |  |  |  |
| Pd/rGO                                                                                                                              | 0.3<br>0.5<br>0.61 (peak current<br>potential) | 200<br>300<br>324                          | 0.34                       | 160                                                                      | 2.02                                              |  |  |  |
| Pd/<br>rGO <sub>1</sub> -C <sub>1</sub>                                                                                             | 0.1                                            | 327                                        | 0.38                       | 467                                                                      | 1.12                                              |  |  |  |
|                                                                                                                                     | 0.2                                            | 471                                        |                            |                                                                          |                                                   |  |  |  |
|                                                                                                                                     | 0.289 (peak current potential)                 | 522.4                                      |                            |                                                                          |                                                   |  |  |  |
| [a] I <sub>f</sub> forw                                                                                                             | ard peak current and <i>I</i>                  | <sub>b</sub> reverse p                     | eak current                | ·.                                                                       |                                                   |  |  |  |

There is also a small shoulder peak appeared at 0.63 V in the anodic scan which is assigned due to the oxide layer formation on the Pd surface. A relatively sharp peak is observed in the cathodic half cycle of the CV curve at 0.39 V ( $C_p$ ). This peak is associated to formic acid oxidation in the reverse cycle coupled with the reduction of the oxides which were adsorbed on the Pd surface during the anodic half cycle. This behavior is confirmed by the absence of a shoulder peak in this cycle.

Furthermore, the absence of any other peak in the reverse cycle indicates that no Pd oxide is present. In the case of Pd/ rGO catalyst, a broad peak at a higher potential (0.61 V) and a smaller peak current density compared to Pd/rGO<sub>1</sub>-C<sub>1</sub> is observed. The reference catalyst, Vulcan carbon supported Pd (Pd/C) showed a similar pattern of formic acid oxidation reaction. In the forward potential scan, a sharp peak at relatively more negative potential (peak potential,  $A_p = 0.16 \text{ V}$ ) is observed. This peak is due to formic acid oxidation during dehydrogenation pathway. A shoulder peak at 0.62 V is due to oxide formation on Pd surface. In the reverse scan, the peak appeared at 0.46 V is also due to formic acid oxidation into CO<sub>2</sub> and regeneration of active sites of the catalyst.

The calculated mass specific activity (mAmg<sup>-1</sup> Pd) for Pd/ rGO<sub>1</sub>-C<sub>1</sub> catalyst is also higher when compared to Pd/rGO and Pd/C, Figure 5e. The mass specific activity of the Pd/rGO<sub>1</sub>-C<sub>1</sub> (969.76 mA mg<sup>-1</sup> Pd) catalyst in the forward scan is 1.52 times higher than the Pd/rGO (639.50 mA mg<sup>-1</sup> Pd) and 2.33 times higher than the Pd/C (368.73 mA mg<sup>-1</sup> Pd) catalyst.

Various electrochemical parameters are shown in the Table 2. Current density and mass specific activity results reveal that a noticeable increase in the catalyst activity towards formic acid oxidation is observed when porous carbon is used in combination with the rGO as a support material. The high current density and mass specific activity values of formic acid oxidation at Pd/rGO<sub>1</sub>-C<sub>1</sub> catalyst as compared to Pd/rGO and Pd/C catalysts are due to the high BET surface area of the porous carbon and excellent electron transport offered by the rGO sheets which ensures enhanced metal dispersion, high

| Table 2. Comparison of ECSA and mass specific activities of the synthesized catalysts for formic acid oxidation with Pd loading 1.26 mg cm <sup>-2</sup> . |                               |                                      |                                                 |                                                                         |                                                    |  |  |  |  |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------|--------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|--|--|--|--|
| Catalyst                                                                                                                                                   | Potential limits <i>E</i> [V] | Coulombic charge Q <sub>H</sub> [mC] | Electrochemical<br>active surface area<br>[cm²] | Specific electrochemical surface area [m <sup>2</sup> g <sup>-1</sup> ] | Mass specific activity<br>[mA mg <sup>-1</sup> Pd] |  |  |  |  |
| Pd/C                                                                                                                                                       | -0.20-0.04                    | 14.90                                | 70.82                                           | 79                                                                      | 368.73                                             |  |  |  |  |
| Pd/rGO                                                                                                                                                     | -0.16-0.08                    | 21.72                                | 103.46                                          | 115                                                                     | 639.5                                              |  |  |  |  |
| Pd/rGO₁-                                                                                                                                                   | -C <sub>1</sub> -0.14-0.11    | 25.52                                | 121.5                                           | 135                                                                     | 969.76                                             |  |  |  |  |

mass transportation and greater number of active sites, provided a platform for FA electro-oxidation.

This is further confirmed by the electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) analyses, which were performed with an amplitude of 10 mV in the frequency range from 1 MHz to 1.0 Hz at a potential of 0.2 V (vs. Ag/AgCl). Six similar semicycles can be observed from Figure S8, indicating that the mechanism of FA oxidation on the six catalysts is similar, which is in accordance with the findings of CV studies. The radius of the semi cycle represents the charge transfer resistance (Rct) of the reaction. It can be seen from Figure S8 that Pd/rGO has the smallest Rct value and Pd/C<sub>100</sub> has the largest one, indicating Pd/rGO has the lowest Rct value for FA oxidation reaction and Pd/C<sub>100</sub> has the highest one, which is consistent with the above analysis.

Chronoamperometry (CA) experiments were performed to investigate the catalysts electrochemical stability during formic acid oxidation. CA experiments were carried out for 3000 sec in  $N_2$ -saturated 1 mol L<sup>-1</sup> HCOOH/0.25 mol L<sup>-1</sup> aqueous  $H_2SO_4$ solution at 1.0 V. The current-time curves recorded for Pd/rGO<sub>1</sub>-C<sub>1</sub>, Pd/rGO and Pd/C catalysts are shown in Figure 6. The sharp

Figure 6. Chronoamperometric curves of Pd/rGO<sub>1</sub>-C<sub>1</sub>, Pd/rGO and Pd/C at 1.0 V (vs Ag/AgCl) in 0.25 mol  $L^{-1}$   $H_2SO_4/1.0$  mol  $L^{-1}$  HCOOH up to 3000 s.

decay of current density at the start of the experiment (1.0 V) is due to the adsorption/accumulation of intermediate poisonous species (if produced) on the catalyst surface which decreases the catalytic activity of the catalyst, followed by a stable current at the polarization point. After 100 sec of a continuous run of the experiment, the current density was stabilized. This behavior indicates that the catalyst deactivation is very slow

which is in agreement with the CV results. After 3000 sec of CA experiment, the value of current density for Pd/rGO<sub>1</sub>-C<sub>1</sub> electrocatalyst was reduced to 206.94 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> that is 40.9% of the initial value of 506 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. While the current density for Pd/ rGO reduced to 111.35 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> that is 35.8% of the initial value (310.5 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>). Similarly, current density decreases in the case of Pd/C to  $42\,\text{mA}\,\text{cm}^{-2}$  that is  $26.4\,\%$  of the initial value of 158.8 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. The initial values of the current density were taken at 10 sec to avoid hydrogen adsorption/desorption current. The CA results are also in correspondence with the CV results. The interaction between porous carbon and reduced graphene oxide within the composite enhances electrocatalytic performance of the Pd catalyst for formic acid oxidation. It is worth to mention that the current activity value of our synthesized catalyst (Pd/rGO<sub>1</sub>-C<sub>1</sub>, 969.76 mA mg<sup>-1</sup>) is much higher than the recently reported results of graphene supported Pd (308.4 mA mg<sup>-1</sup>), Pd–Ni/rGO (604.3 mA mg<sup>-1</sup>), [22] Pd-Au supported functionalized graphene  $(580 \text{ mA mg}^{-1})^{[22b]}$ and carbon supported Pd catalyst (841 mA mg<sup>-1</sup>)<sup>[23]</sup> under similar conditions.

The functional groups present on rGO assist in increase in current activity and stability of the catalyst for longer time operation and carbon present in nanocomposite enhances the electrochemical surface area of the catalyst (135 m<sup>2</sup>g<sup>-1</sup>) as compared to literature results i.e. 34.6 m<sup>2</sup>g<sup>-1</sup> for Pd/C–C, 26.12  $m^2g^{-1}$  for Pd/C-k, and 55.3  $m^2g^{-1}$  for Pd/FCNT. A comparison of electrochemical studies of the synthesized catalyst (Pd/  $rGO_1-C_1$ ) with the reported values is given in Table 3.

| <b>Table 3.</b> A comparison of current study with the recently reported different types of carbon supported Pd electrocatalysts used for FA oxidation reaction |                                                  |                                                           |                                                                                                                                            |  |  |  |  |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--|--|--|--|
| Catalyst                                                                                                                                                        | ECSA $[m^2g^{-1}]$                               | Mass activity [mA g <sup>-1</sup> metal]                  | Reference                                                                                                                                  |  |  |  |  |
| Pd/CMG<br>Pd/C-C<br>Pd/C-k <sub>7</sub><br>Pd/FCNT<br>Pd/GN1<br>Pd/CMK-8-I<br>Pd/rGO <sub>1</sub> -C <sub>1</sub>                                               | 155.6<br>34.6<br>26.12<br>55.3<br>162.56<br>28.7 | 112.36<br>841<br>363.2<br>746.1<br>300<br>486.4<br>969.76 | 2011 <sup>[24]</sup> 2015 <sup>[23]</sup> 2014 <sup>[25]</sup> 2013 <sup>[26]</sup> 2011 <sup>[27]</sup> 2012 <sup>[28]</sup> Present work |  |  |  |  |

#### 3. Conclusions

In the present study, a novel composite support comprising of high surface area porous carbon and highly conductive rGO sheets was fabricated for formic acid oxidation electrocatalysts. High surface area porous carbon was derived from carbonization of MOF-5 and rGO sheets were fabricated by the

method reported elsewhere. The Pd nanoparticles were deposited over composite support by conventional chemical reduction method. The synthesized catalysts were structurally and morphologically characterized via a range of techniques and tested as electro-catalysts for formic acid oxidation. High catalytic activity for formic acid oxidation was attributed to the synergistic effect of support component (surface area + conductivity) and inherent catalytic properties of Pd nanoparticles. During electrochemical testing, it is revealed that the carbon to rGO 1:1 ratio is optimal in Pd/rGO<sub>x</sub>-C<sub>v</sub> to achieve the best catalytic activity. The obtained activity order for various catalysts is as follows;  $Pd/rGO_1-C_1 > Pd/rGO_4-C_1 > Pd/rGO_3-C_2 >$  $Pd/rGO_2-C_3 > Pd/rGO_1-C_4 > Pd/rGO > Pd/C_{100}$ . The obtained mass specific activity for Pd/rGO<sub>1</sub>-C<sub>1</sub> (967.76 mA/mg) is 1.52 times higher than for Pd/rGO (639.5 mA/mg) and 2.33 times higher than Pd/C (368.73 mA/mg) at given onset peak potentials. The current study is highlighting the role of support in electrocatalyst for dispersion of metal nanoparticles and promotion of electrons transfer during electrochemical reactions.

#### **Experimental Section**

#### Synthesis of MOF-5 Derived Porous Carbon

MOF-5 was synthesized using the literature method. [11a,29] In a typical procedure, terephthalic acid 30.5 mmol (5.065 g) and trimethylamine (8.5 mL) were dissolved in 400 mL of N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF). Zinc acetate dihydrate [Zn(OAc)<sub>2</sub>·2H<sub>2</sub>O], 77.4 mmol (16.99 g) was dissolved in 500 mL of DMF and the solution was added to the above organic solution with continuous stirring for 15 minutes. The reaction mixture was refluxed at 125 °C for 24 h. Pale yellow precipitates appeared on cooling the reaction mixture to room temperature. The precipitates were filtered, washed with DMF and dried at 70 °C. The product was then vacuum dried at 200  $^{\circ}\text{C}$  and 250 mbar pressure for 3 h. It was then soaked in furfuryl alcohol (FA) overnight followed by filtration and washing with DMF to remove any furfuryl alcohol molecules attached to the outer surface of the MOF-5. For the synthesis of porous carbon, 1.0 g of prepared MOF-5/FA composite was transferred to an alumina boat and placed in a quartz tube fixed in a Nabertherm B 180 vacuum lined tube furnace. Argon was continuously flushed (ca. 200 mL min<sup>-1</sup>) through the tube furnace assembly for 1 h to remove all the air inside the chamber. The temperature inside the chamber was increased to 200 °C at a ramp rate of 5 °C per min and held for 6 h. The carbonization of the composite was carried out at 950 °C for 8 h. The resulting carbonaceous material was treated with HCl (0.5 M) for several times to remove any Zn/ZnO present in the product. The porous carbon obtained was subjected to BET surface area analysis and  $1455 \ m^2 g^{-1}$  value was obtained from BET isotherm (Figure S5 of the Supporting Information).

#### Synthesis of Reduced Graphene Oxide (rGO)

rGO was synthesized by the exfoliation of graphite using a modified Hummers' method. [14] 1.0 g graphite powder and 0.5 g sodium nitrate (NaNO<sub>3</sub>) were added into 25 mL concentrated sulfuric acid (H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub>). The mixture was stirred for 1.0 h. 3.0 g of potassium permanganate (KMnO<sub>4</sub>) was added slowly followed by further stirring for 1.0 h at a temperature below 10 °C. Then the temperature of the reaction mixture was increased to 35 °C and allowed to stand for 3 h. The reaction mixture was again brought back to below 10°C followed by the addition of 80 mL distilled water. It was then heated at 100 °C for 1 h to stop the reaction. Then 20 mL H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> was added dropwise causing effervescence followed by an addition of 50 ml of distilled water and stirring until the mixture reached room temperature. This solution was transferred to a beaker and washed 7-8 times with distilled water. The solution was tested for any remaining sulfates with BaCl<sub>2</sub> solution. After the removal of sulfates, the sample was washed with 0.1 M HCl solution 5 times and the resulting solution filtered and dried at 70 °C for 6 h to obtain the graphene oxide product. The graphene oxide was suspended in solution at a concentration of 1 mg mL $^{-1}$ . This solution was sonicated in an ultra-cleaning bath for 1 h. 10 µL of hydrazine hydrate 65% for each mg of graphene oxide were added dropwise. The reaction mixture was refluxed at 110 °C for 24 h, washed with distilled water until the solution became pH neutral and then washed 5 times with methanol, followed by distilled water. The product was filtered and dried at 70 °C for 6 h. The final product was rGO that was subjected to physical character-

#### **Porous Carbon Reduced Graphene Oxide Composite Fabrication**

Composites of porous carbon and reduced graphene oxide were fabricated by mixing various concentration ratios of both components in distilled water, stirred for 1 h and sonicated for 2 h, filtered dried and used further for the fabrication of Pd nanoparticles according to above mentioned procedure.

#### **Catalyst Fabrication**

Sodium borohydride reduction method was used for the fabrication of Pd nanoparticles on PC-rGO composite surface. Typically, an appropriate amount of porous carbon and rGO were added in 50 mL of distilled water and sonicated for 1 h. An appropriate amount of an aqueous solution of palladium acetate was added dropwise to this suspension (A 20 wt.% of total Pd was intended to load), and the resulting solution was again sonicated for 0.5 h. The reduction of palladium ions was carried out by the dropwise addition of an appropriate amount of freshly prepared sodium borohydride (metal/NaBH<sub>4</sub>=1/6) solution and stirred for 4 h. The obtained precipitates were filtered, washed several times with distilled water, and dried at 70 °C. After drying the obtained product was treated with a 5% mixtures of hydrogen in argon gas at 300 °C for 4 h. By using the same procedure, various Pd/ rGO<sub>x</sub>-C<sub>v</sub> catalysts were prepared, where x and y represent the nominal ratios of porous carbon and rGO. The same procedure was used to prepare 20 wt.% Pd/C (C=Vulcan carbon) and 20 wt.% Pd/rGO as reference catalysts. Various concentration ratios of porous carbon and rGO were maintained while keeping the concentration of Pd fixed at 20%. Five catalysts (Pd/rGO<sub>1</sub>-C<sub>1</sub>, Pd/rGO<sub>4</sub>-C<sub>1</sub>, Pd/rGO<sub>3</sub>-C<sub>2</sub>,  $Pd/rGO_2-C_3$ ,  $Pd/rGO_1-C_4$  and  $Pd/C_{100}$ ) were fabricated by varying the porous carbon to rGO ratios. Subscripts shows the ratio of rGO and porous carbon, respectively. The composite having 1:1 ration of rGO:PC was found to be the best performance catalyst.

#### **Physical Characterization**

Synthesized catalysts were characterized by a range of techniques. Phase purity of the MOF-5, rGO, porous carbon and catalyst were determined using PANalytical X-ray diffractometer (Model X'pert Pro origin, The Netherland) equipped with Cu  $K\alpha$  radiation source  $((\lambda = 1.544206 \text{ Å})$  generating radiation. Functional group analysis for rGO was performed using IR Tracer 100 Shimadzu FTIR at 400-

## **CHEMELECTROCHEM**

4000 cm<sup>-1</sup> range, and with Raman spectroscopy. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) measurements were performed with the ESCALAB250Xi (Thermo Scientific, UK) with X-ray source Al K $\alpha$ (energy 1486.68 eV) for surface elemental analysis and evaluation of oxidation states of loaded palladium metal. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was performed using JEOL-JSM-6610LV equipped with energy dispersive X-ray (EDX) machine. Adsorption isotherms were carried out using the Accelerated Surface Area & Porosimetry System 2020 supplied by Micromeritics Instruments Inc. Approximately 20 mg of sample was loaded into a glass analysis tube and outgassed for 3 h under vacuum at 200 °C prior to measurement. N<sub>2</sub> adsorption and desorption isotherms were measured at 77 K and data were analyzed using Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) model to determine the surface area. [30] Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) was used for the estimation of surface morphology and metal particle dispersion over the composite material.

#### **Electrochemical Measurements**

The electrochemical studies were carried out using the Potentiostat (Biologic SP-300). All the electrochemical measurements were carried out using three electrode system, that contains catalyst ink coated glassy carbon (GCE) as the working electrode, Pt wire as the auxiliary (counter) electrode and standard Ag/AgCl as the reference electrode. The electrochemical active surface area (ECSA) of the prepared catalyst was measured in aqueous H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> solution (0.5 mol L<sup>-1</sup>) at a scan rate of 20 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. For formic acid electroxidation reactions, the aqueous solution of H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> (0.25 mol L<sup>-1</sup>) was used as the supporting electrolyte and an aqueous solution of HCOOH (1 mol L<sup>-1</sup>) was used as the working solution at room temperature. Prior to electrochemical measurements, the surface of the GCE was cleaned by polishing it with alumina slurry (0.3 μm). To prepare catalyst ink, 3 mg catalyst was dispersed in 90  $\mu L$  of dried analytical grade isopropanol and 10 µL Nafion 117 (binder), this suspension was sonicated for half an hour to obtain a homogenous slurry (catalyst ink). 3 µL of this ink was spread on to the surface of the GCE (0.071 cm<sup>2</sup>) and dried at room temperature overnight. The electrolytic cell was purged with 99.9% pure N<sub>2</sub> for 5 min. prior to each electrochemical experiment.

#### **Acknowledgements**

This work is supported by Higher Education Commission (HEC) of Pakistan (No. 20-2704/NRPU/R&D/HEC/12).

#### Conflict of Interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

**Keywords:** formic acid oxidation ⋅ fuel cells ⋅ metal–organic frameworks · porous carbon · reduced graphene oxide

- [1] Y. J. Wang, D. P. Wilkinson, J. Zhang, Chem. Rev. 2011, 111, 7625-7651.
- [2] Z. Peng, H. Yang, N ano Today 2009, 4, 143-164.
- [3] a) X. Wang, J. Yang, H. Yin, R. Song, Z. Tang, A dv. Mater. 2013, 25, 2728-2732; b) X. Zhao, M. Yin, L. Ma, L. Liang, C. Liu, J. Liao, T. Lu, W. Xing, Energy Environ. Sci. 2011, 4, 2736–2753.

- [4] a) X. Y. Yan, X. L. Tong, Y. F. Zhang, X. D. Han, Y. Y. Wang, G. Q. Jin, Y. Qin, X. Y. Guo, Chem. Commun. 2012, 48, 1892-1894; b) H. Lee, S. E. Habas, G. A. Somorjai, P. Yang, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2008, 130, 5406-5407.
- a) X. Huang, H. Zhang, C. Guo, Z. Zhou, N. Zheng, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2009, 121, 4902-4906; b) Q. Yuan, Z. Zhou, J. Zhuang, X. Wang, Chem. Commun. 2010, 46 (9), 1491-1493.
- [6] a) W. Zhou, J. Y. Lee, J. Phys. Chem. C 2008, 112, 3789-3793; b) V. Mazumder, S. Sun, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2009, 131, 4588-4589; c) W. P. Zhou, A. Lewera, R. Larsen, R. I. Masel, P. S. Bagus, A. Wieckowski, J. Phys. Chem. B 2006, 110, 13393-13398.
- a) M. Carmo, A. R. Dos Santos, J. G. Poco, M. Linardi. J. Power Sources 2007, 173, 860-866; b) E. Antolini, Appl. Catal. B: 2009, 88, 1-24.
- [8] a) B. Liu, H. Shioyama, T. Akita, Q. Xu, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2008, 130, 5390-5391; b) H. L. Jiang, B. Liu, Y. Q. Lan, K. Kuratani, T. Akita, H. Shioyama, F. Zong, Q. Xu, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2011, 133, 11854-11857; c) S. J. Yang, T. Kim, J. H. Im, Y. S. Kim, K. Lee, H. Jung, C. R. Park, Chem. Mater. 2012, 24, 464-470; d) A. J. Amali, J. K. Sun, Q. Xu, Chem. Commun. 2014, 50, 1519-1522; e) X. Yan, X. Li, Z. Yan, S. Komarneni, Appl. Surf. Sci. 2014, 308, 306-310.
- [9] a) H. Wang, O. Zhu, R. Zou, O. Xu, Chem. 2017, 2, 52-80; b) J. Li, O. L. Zhu, Q. Xu, Chem. Commun. 2015, 51 (54), 10827-10830.
- [10] a) I. A. Khan, Y. Qian, A. Badshah, D. Zhao, M. A. Nadeem, ACS Appl. Mater. Inter. 2016, 8, 20793-20801; b) I. A. Khan, Y. Qian, A. Badshah, M. A. Nadeem, D. Zhao, ACS Appl. Mater.Inter. 2016, 8, 17268-17275.
- [11] a) I. A. Khan, A. Badshah, N. Haider, S. Ullah, D. H. Anjum, M. A. Nadeem, J. Solid State Electrochem. 2014, 18, 1545-1555; b) I. A. Khan, M. Choucair, M. Imran, A. Badshah, M. A. Nadeem, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2015, 40, 13344-13356.
- [12] H. Ali, F. K. Kanodarwala, I. Majeed, J. A. Stride, M. A. Nadeem, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2016, 8, 32581-32590.
- [13] B. F. Machado, M. Oubenali, M. R. Axet, T. T. Nguyen, M. Tunckol, M. Girleanu, O. Ersen, I. C. Gerber, P. Serp, J. Catal. 2014, 309, 185-198.
- [14] a) L. Sun, B. Fugetsu, Mater. Lett. 2013, 109, 207-210; b) V. Loryuenyong, K. Totepvimarn, P. Eimburanapravat, W. Boonchompoo, A. Buasri, Adv. Mater. Sci. Engi. 2013, 2013.
- [15] H. B. Aiyappa, P. Pachfule, R. Banerjee, S. Kurungot, Cryst. Growth. Design 2013, 13, 4195-4199.
- [16] E. Sheha, Graphene 2014, 2014.
- [17] Y. Li, X. Fan, J. Qi, J. Ji, S. Wang, G. Zhang, F. Zhang, Nano Res. 2010, 3 (6), 429-437.
- [18] D. Yang, A. Velamakanni, G. Bozoklu, S. Park, S, M. Stoller, R. D. Piner, S. Stankovich, I. Jung, D. A. Field, C. A. Ventrice, *Carbon* **2009**, *47*, 145–152.
- [19] M. Patel, W. Feng, K. Savaram, M. R. Khoshi, R. Huang, J. Sun, Rabie, C. Flach, R. Mendelsohn, E. Garfunkel, Small 2015, 11, 3358-3368.
- [20] G. Deniau, L. Azoulay, P. Jégou, G. Le Chevallier, S. Palacin, Surf. Sci. 2006, 600, 675-684.
- [21] a) I. G. Casella, M. J. Contursi, Electroanal. Chem. 2013, 692, 80-86; b) I. G. Casella, J. Electrochem. Soc. 2008, 155, D723-D729.
- [22] a) D. Bin, B. Yang, F. Ren, K. Zhang, P. Yang, Y. Du, J. Mater. Chem. A 2015, 3, 14001-14006; b) T. Maiyalagan, X. Wang, A. Manthiram, RSC Advances 2014, 4, 4028-4033.
- [23] S. Yao, G. Li, C. Liu, W. Xing, J. Power Sources 2015, 284, 355-360.
- [24] Y. Su-Dong, S. Cheng-Min, T. Hao, H. Wei, Z. Xiao-Gang, G. Hong-Jun, Chin. Phys. B 2011, 20, 113301.
- [25] Y. Ji, L. Shen, A. Wang, M. Wu, Y. Tang, Y. Chen, T. Lu, J. Power Sources **2014**, 260, 82-88.
- [26] A. B. A. Nassr, A. Quetschke, E. Koslowski, M. Bron, Electrochim. Acta 2013, 102, 202-211.
- [27] J. Yang, C. Tian, L. Wang, H. Fu, J. Mater. Chem. 2011, 21, 3384–3390.
- [28] T. Maiyalagan, A. B. A. Nassr, T. Alaje, M. Bron, K. Scott, J. Power Sources **2012**. 211. 147-153.
- [29] D. J. Tranchemontagne, J. R. Hunt, O. M. Yaghi, Tetrahedron 2008, 64, 8553-8557.
- [30] S. Brunauer, P. H. Emmett, E. Teller, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1938, 60, 309-319.

Manuscript received: August 23, 2017 Version of record online: ■ ■ ■, 0000

### ARTICLES

Somebody to lean on: A composite of reduced graphene oxide (rGO) and porous carbon (PC) was fabricated as a support material for a Pdsupported electrocatalyst for the formic acid oxidation reaction. The obtained mass specific activity for Pd/rGO1-C1 (969.76 mAmg-1 ) is 1.52 times higher than for Pd/rGO (639.5 mAmg-1 ) and 2.63 times higher than Pd/C (368.73 mAmg-1 ) synthesized under the same conditions and at given onset peak potentials.

H. Ali, S. Zaman, I. Majeed, Dr. F. K. Kanodarwala, Dr. M. A. Nadeem, Prof. J. A. Stride\*, Dr. M. A. Nadeem\*

1–9

Porous Carbon/rGO Composite: An Ideal Support Material of Highly Efficient Palladium Electrocatalysts for the Formic Acid Oxidation Reaction