---
source: Bai 等 - 2021 - Selective Ethanol Oxidation Reaction at the Rh–SnO2 Interface.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 41.463s
generated: 2026-01-09T04:34:46.320116Z
---

# **Selective Ethanol Oxidation Reaction at the Rh–SnO2 Interface**

*Shuxing Bai, Yong Xu,\* Kailei Cao, and Xiaoqing Huang\**

**Direct ethanol fuel cells (DEFCs) are regarded as an attractive power source with high energy density, bio-renewability, and convenient storage and transportation. However, the anodic reaction of DEFCs, that is, the ethanol oxidation reaction (EOR), suffers from poor efficiency due to the low selectivity to CO2 (C1 pathway) and high selectivity to CH3COOH (C2 pathway). In this study, the selective EOR to CO2 can be achieved at the Rh–SnO2 interface in SnO2–Rh nanosheets (NSs). The optimized catalyst of 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs/C exhibits excellent alkaline EOR performance with a mass activity of 213.2 mA mgRh<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and a Faraday efficiency of 72.8% for the C1 pathway, which are 1.7 and 1.9 times higher than those of Rh NSs/C. Mechanism studies indicate that the strong synergy at the Rh–SnO2 interface significantly promotes the breaking of CC bond of C2H5OH to form CO2, and facilitates oxidation of the poisonous intermediates (\* CO and \* CH3) to suppress the deactivation of the catalyst. This work not only provides a highly selective, active, and stable catalyst for the EOR, but also promotes fundamental research for the design of efficient catalysts via interface modification.**

Direct ethanol fuel cells (DEFCs) have been regarded as promising energy devices for the conversion of chemical energy to electricity owing to their advantages of sustainability and environment-friendly.[1–3] In principle, the anodic ethanol oxidation reaction (EOR) for DEFCs can take place either via the C1 or the C2 pathway. C2H5OH undergoes a complete oxidation to form CO2 via a 12-electron process in the C1 pathway, while C2H5OH

Dr. S. Bai, Prof. Y. Xu Guangzhou Key Laboratory of Low-Dimensional Materials and Energy Storage Devices Collaborative Innovation Center of Advanced Energy Materials School of Materials and Energy Guangdong University of Technology Guangzhou, Guangdong 510006, China E-mail: yongxu@gdut.edu.cn

Dr. S. Bai, K. Cao, Prof. X. Huang College of Chemistry Chemical Engineering and Materials Science Soochow University

Jiangsu 215123, China E-mail: hxq006@suda.edu.cn

Prof. X. Huang

State Key Laboratory of Physical Chemistry of Solid Surfaces College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering

Xiamen University

Xiamen 361005, China E-mail: hxq006@xmu.edu.cn

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202005767.

**DOI: 10.1002/adma.202005767**

experiences a partial oxidation to produce CH3COOH via a 4-electron process in the C2 pathway.[4,5] In principle, a highefficiency EOR process requires the complete oxidation of C2H5OH to form CO2 (C1 pathway), however, the C2 pathway is generally preferential for EOR due to its faster kinetics comparing with the C1 pathway.[6–8] It is thus highly desired to develop efficient catalysts with high activity, high CO2 selectivity and excellent stability for EOR.

Noble metals (e.g., Pt and Pd) have been widely used as catalysts for EOR owing to their excellent activities. However, Pt and Pd catalysts suffer the disadvantage of low CO2 selectivity for EOR (<7.5% for Pt and <2.5% for Pd).[9–12] Over the past decades, tremendous effort has been devoted to modifying Pt and Pd catalysts for EOR.[13–17] Despite the great process, the quest for

high-efficiency EOR is still driven by the current drawback of low CO2 selectivity.[18–22] Recently, Rh-based materials have been used as promising catalysts for the selective EOR to form CO2. Zhang et al. demonstrated that Rh icosahedrons and penta-twinned Rh nanobranches displayed CO2 selectivities of ≈11.2% and ≈14.5%, respectively, for EOR.[23] Nonetheless, Rh can be easily poisoned by those intermediates including carbon monoxide (CO) and methyl (CH*x*) during EOR, which strongly impedes the practical application of Rh for EOR.[23] Over the past decades, great attention has been paid on the modification of Rh with other metals, such as Rh@Pt ultrathin nanowires,[13] PtNiRh octahedrons,[14] PtRhCu nanoboxes,[15] PtRhFe nanospheres,[16] and PtRhSnO2/C,[17] for improving the EOR performance. Despite great progress in this field, more investigations are still required to detail reveal the structure-performance relationship, and increase the activity, selectivity and stability of Rhbased catalysts for EOR.

Herein, we demonstrated that SnO2–Rh NSs could serve as highly active and selective site for EOR to form CO2. The optimized catalyst (0.2SnO2–Rh NSs/C) exhibited excellent EOR performance in terms of activity, selectivity, and stability. In particular, the mass activity (MA) of 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs/C (213.2 mA mgRh<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> ) was 1.7 times higher than that of Rh NSs/C in 0.1 m KOH + 0.5 m C2H5OH. The Faraday efficiency (FE) for the C1 pathway over 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs/C was 72.8%, which was significantly higher than that of Rh NSs/C (38.8%). Moreover, 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs/C exhibited enhanced stability for EOR. Mechanism studies indicated that the Rh–SnO2 interface could promote the cleavage of CC bonds in C2H5OH to form CO2 through the intermediate of COad, and the strong synergy at the

**Figure 1.** Structural characterization of Rh NSs and 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs. a) Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image, b) spherical aberration TEM (SATEM) image, and c) 3D atom-overlapping Gaussian function fitting mapping of 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs. Those peaks with high intensity were assigned to Sn. d) Rh K-edge X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) spectra and e) Fourier transforms of the Rh K-edge extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) for 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs/C, Rh NSs/C, Rh, and Rh2O3. f) Wavelet transform of Rh K-edge data for 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs/C and Rh NSs/C. g) Sn K-edge XANES spectra and h) Fourier transforms EXAFS of Sn K-edge EXAFS for 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs/C, Sn foil and bulk SnO2. The solid lines and circles in (e,h) represent the measured and fitting curves, respectively. i) Wavelet transform of Sn K-edge data for 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs/C and bulk SnO2. j) Schematic illustration of the structure for 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs.

Rh–SnO2 interface facilitated the electron transfer from Rh to Sn species, which further promoted the dissociation of CC bonds in C2H5OH and hindered the poisoning of catalyst by the intermediates during EOR.

SnO2–Rh NSs were synthesized via a solvothermal method (Supporting Information). The morphology, size, and structure of the as-prepared nanomaterials were characterized by transmission electron microscopy (TEM, **Figure 1**a and Figure S1: Supporting Information) and atomic force microscopy (AFM, Figure S2: Supporting Information) measurements. Spherical aberration TEM (SATEM, Figure 1b) image of 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs presented a lattice distance of 0.22 nm, which was indexed as the (111) facet of face-centered-cubic (fcc) phase Rh.[24] Moreover, 3D atom-overlapping Gaussian function fitting mapping was used to reveal the atomic distribution of Rh and Sn in 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs (Figure 1c). The composition and structure of 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs were studied by energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX), X-ray diffraction (XRD), and X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) measurements. EDX measurement indicated that the atomic ratios of Rh and Sn in 0.1SnO2–Rh NSs, 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs, 0.3SnO2–Rh NSs were 90.6/9.4, 79.9/20.1, and 68.6/31.4, respectively (Figure S3, Supporting Information). The characteristic peaks in the XRD patterns (Figure S4, Supporting Information) of Rh NSs and 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs were ascribed to the fcc phase of metallic Rh (PDF No. 05-0685).[24] Prior to catalytic testing, the as-prepared Rh-based NSs were loaded on carbon (C, Vulcan XC72R) with a Rh loading amount of 20 wt%, which were subject to sequential calcinations in air at 250 °C for 1 h and in H2/Ar (5 vol%) at 250 °C for another 1 h. X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) measurements were employed to investigate the local structures of 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs/C. Compared to the K-edge XANES spectra of Rh and Rh2O3 references, Rh in 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs/C and Rh NSs/C were mainly presented as metal state, and the slight positive shift of K-edge suggested that Rh was partially oxidized (Figure 1d and Figure S5a: Supporting Information). In the EXAFS spectra and the wavelet transformed (WT) profiles of 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs/C and Rh NSs/C, the intense peak at 2.4 Å and the weak peak at 1.5 Å were ascribed to Rh–Rh and Rh–O

www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.advmat.de

coordination, respectively (Figure 1e,f and Figure S5: Supporting Information). [25-27] The fitting results of EXAFS spectra were listed in Table S1 (Supporting Information), where the coordination numbers of Rh-Rh for 0.2SnO2-Rh NSs/C and Rh NSs/C were 8.9 and 11.3, respectively. Notably, the coordination distance of Rh-Rh (2.698 Å) in 0.2SnO2-Rh NSs/C were higher than that of Rh NSs/C (2.685 Å) and Rh (2.687 Å), which might be attributed to the coordination of Rh-Sn in 0.2SnO<sub>2</sub>-Rh NSs/C (Figure 1e and Table S1: Supporting Information). Similarly, Sn species in 0.2SnO2-Rh NSs/C were presented as oxidation state by analyzing the normalized Sn K-edge XANES spectra of 0.2SnO<sub>2</sub>-Rh NSs/C, Sn foil and bulk SnO<sub>2</sub> (Figure 1g). Results from EXAFS measurement further confirmed the oxidation state of Sn in 0.2SnO2-Rh NSs/C, as revealed by the strong Sn-O coordination in the EXAFS spectrum and WT profile (Figure 1h,i).[28] The coordination numbers of Sn-O for 0.2SnO<sub>2</sub>-Rh NSs/C and bulk SnO<sub>2</sub> were 1.8 and 6, respectively, and the coordination distance of Sn-O (2.062 Å) for 0.2SnO<sub>2</sub>-Rh NSs/C was higher than that for bulk SnO<sub>2</sub> (2.052) (Table S2, Supporting Information), being consistent with the results of Rh K-edge spectra in Figure 1e and Table S1 (Supporting Information). Based on the aforementioned results, we deduced that the formation of Rh-SnO<sub>2</sub> interface in 0.2SnO<sub>2</sub>-Rh NSs, as vividly depicted in Figure 1j.

Electrochemical tests were performed at room temperature using a system with three electrodes, where the glassy carbon electrode coated with catalyst, saturated calomel electrode (SCE), and carbon electrode served as work electrode, reference electrode, and counter electrode, respectively. Calibration of SCE was performed using the Pt filaments as working and counter electrodes (Figure S6, Supporting Information). Before EOR testing, Rh-based NSs/C were pre-activated by cyclic voltammogram (CV) in 0.1 м HClO<sub>4</sub> with a sweep rate of 200 mV s<sup>-1</sup> at a potential range of 0.05–1.25  $V_{RHE}$  for 50 cycles. Moreover, the hydrogen desorption (H<sub>upd</sub>, 0.05-0.35 V<sub>RHE</sub>) of CV curves in 0.1 M HClO<sub>4</sub> with a sweep rate of 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup> after activation was used to determine the electrochemical specific surface areas (ECSAs) of Rh-based catalysts (Figure S7, Supporting Information). The ECSAs of Rh NSs/C and 0.2SnO<sub>2</sub>-Rh NSs/C were 122.6 and 124.4 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>, respectively. Afterward, EOR performance was evaluated in a solution of 0.1 м КОН + 0.5  $\,\mathrm{M}$  C<sub>2</sub>H<sub>5</sub>OH with a sweep rate of 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. As shown in Figure 2a, the EOR curves of Rh NSs/C and 0.2SnO2-Rh NSs/C displayed two peaks in the forward-scanning curve (0.4-1.2 V<sub>RHE</sub>) and one peak in the backward-scanning curve (0.1–0.55 V<sub>RHE</sub>), which were ascribed to the oxidation of \*CO (peak I,  $\approx 0.78 \text{ V}_{RHE}$ ) and \*CH<sub>x</sub> (peak II,  $\approx 0.9 \text{ V}_{RHE}$ ), and carbonaceous species (peak III, ≈0.4 V<sub>RHE</sub>), respectively.<sup>[29]</sup> The specific current density (j) of peak I was used to evaluate the EOR performance (Figure 2b and Table S3, Supporting Information).[23] The onset potential of EOR on 0.2SnO<sub>2</sub>-Rh NSs/C was  $0.226 \text{ V}_{RHE}$  (Figure 2b), which positively shifted to  $0.267 \text{ V}_{RHE}$ when Rh NSs/C was used as catalyst, indicating that 0.2SnO2-Rh NSs/C exhibited higher EOR activity than Rh NSs/C. Specifically, 0.2SnO<sub>2</sub>-Rh NSs/C exhibited a MA of 213.2 mA mg<sub>Rh</sub><sup>-1</sup> for EOR after normalizing the mass of Rh, which was 1.7 times higher than that of Rh NSs/C (128.5 mA mg<sub>Rh</sub><sup>-1</sup>) (Figure 2b). Moreover, the current density and specific activity (SA) of 0.2SnO<sub>2</sub>-Rh NSs/C were 10.9 and 0.17 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively,

which were much higher than those of Rh NSs/C (6.6 and 0.10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), suggesting that 0.2SnO<sub>2</sub>-Rh NSs/C could be used as efficient catalyst for EOR (Figure 2b). To further study the enhanced EOR performance at Rh-SnO<sub>2</sub> interface, SnO<sub>2</sub>/C and the mixture of Rh NSs/C and SnO<sub>2</sub>/C were used as catalysts for EOR (Figure S8, Supporting Information). It was found that SnO<sub>2</sub>/C displayed poor EOR activity, and the mixture of Rh NSs/C and SnO<sub>2</sub>/C exhibited similar EOR activity comparing with Rh NSs/C but much lower EOR activity than that of 0.2SnO<sub>2</sub>-Rh NSs/C, which further confirmed the significance of Rh-SnO<sub>2</sub> interface on EOR. Moreover, the effect of the Rh-SnO<sub>2</sub> interface on the selectivity of products during EOR was investigated (Figure 2c and Figure S9: Supporting Information). After the chronoamperometric measurement at 0.78 V<sub>RHE</sub> for 10 h in the solution of 0.1 m KOH + 0.5 m  $C_2H_5OH$ , the products were analyzed by <sup>1</sup>H nuclear magnetic resonance (<sup>1</sup>H-NMR).<sup>[30,31]</sup> The peaks with chemical shifts of  $\delta$  = 2.1 and  $\delta$  = 1.9 ppm in the <sup>1</sup>H-NMR spectrum were ascribed to CH<sub>3</sub>CHO and CH<sub>3</sub>COO<sup>-</sup>, respectively (Figure S10, Supporting Information). The concentrations of CH<sub>3</sub>CHO and CH<sub>3</sub>COO<sup>-</sup> were determined by using the standard curve method, as illustrated in Figure S10b,c (Supporting Information). Considering the produced CO2 would further react with KOH, the FE of CO2 was determined by the characteristic peak of  $K_2CO_3$  at 1393 cm $^{-1}$  in transmission IR spectra (Figure S11, Supporting Information). When Rh NSs/C was used as catalyst, CH3COOH was dominant in the liquid products, indicating that the C2 pathway was preferential over Rh NSs/C (Figure 2c and Figure S11d: Supporting Information). In contrast, the C2 pathway was strongly suppressed over 0.2SnO<sub>2</sub>-Rh NSs/C, resulting in the significant increase of CO<sub>2</sub> in products. In particular, the FEs for CO<sub>2</sub> were 32.8%, 44.4%, 72.8%, and 77.1% at 0.6, 0.7, 0.78, and 0.8  $V_{RHE}$  over  $0.2 SnO_2$ -Rh NSs/C, which were higher than that of Rh NSs/C (31.2%, 34.9%, 38.8%, and 62.7%) (Figure 2c and Figure S11d: Supporting Information). In addition, a volcano shape of activity and selectivity to C1 pathway was observed with the increased content of SnO<sub>2</sub> in xSnO<sub>2</sub>-Rh NSs/C, which further revealed the significance of Rh-SnO2 interface on the EOR activity and selectivity (Figure S12, Supporting Information).

The electrochemical impedance spectra (EIS, Figure 2d) and EOR curves with different scan rates (Figure 2e,f and Figure S13: Supporting Information) were further employed to investigate the capability of electron transport in catalyst and the kinetics for EOR. As depicted in Figure 2d, the similar Nyquist plot for 0.2SnO2-Rh NSs/C and Rh NSs/C in 0.1 M KOH demonstrated the similar capability toward electron transport. In contrast, the semicircular diameter of Nyquist plot for 0.2SnO2-Rh NSs/C in 0.1 M KOH + 0.5 M  $C_2H_5OH$  was much less than that of Rh NSs/C, suggesting that the Rh-SnO2 interface significantly promoted the electron transport for EOR. Additionally, we tested the aforementioned catalysts at different scan rates from 10 to 100 mV s<sup>-1</sup> (Figure 2e and Figure S13a: Supporting Information) to evaluate the kinetics during EOR. The current densities (j) for EOR significantly increased with the increased scan rate, and the peaks in the forward-scanning curves gradually shifted to high potential (Figure 2e). A linear relationship between the *j* of the forward peak I and the square root of the scan rate  $(v^{1/2})$  (inset of Figure 2e and Figure S13b: Supporting Information) indicated that the diffusion of reactants and

**Figure 2.** Electrochemical performances for EOR over 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs/C and Rh NSs/C. a) Cyclic voltammogram curves of EOR in 0.1 m KOH + 0.5 m C2H5OH, b) mass and specific activities toward EOR at 0.78 VRHE, c) Faraday efficiency (FE) of CH3CHO, CH3COOH, and CO2 of EOR at 0.78 VRHE, and d) Nyquist plots in 0.1 m KOH + 0.5 m C2H5OH and alone 0.1 m KOH recorded at 0.6 VRHE of 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs/C and Rh NSs/C. Inset of (d) is the equivalent electric circuit, featuring constant phase element (CPE), charge transfer resistance (*R*ct), solution resistance (*R*sol), and Warburg element (*W*1). e) Cyclic voltammogram curves of EOR on 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs/C at different scan rates. Inset of (e) is the corresponding plot of forward peak current (*j*) versus the square root of the scan rate (*v*1/2). f) The slopes of the corresponding plot of *j* versus *v*1/2 on 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs/C and Rh NSs/C.

intermediates was the rate-determining step.[6] As shown in Figure 2f, 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs/C presented a higher slope of the corresponding plot of *j* versus *v*1/2 (14.4) than that of Rh NSs/C (8.6), suggesting that 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs/C displayed faster kinetics than Rh NSs/C for EOR.[32,33]

Chronoamperometry tests at the indicated potentials were carried out to further investigate the effect of the Rh–SnO2 interface on EOR, and Rh NSs/C and Rh NSs/C + SnCl4 (1 × 10−<sup>3</sup> m) were used as references. 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs/C displayed the highest activity among the three catalysts (**Figure 3**a), and its highest steady-state current for EOR revealed the vital role of Rh–SnO2 interface for EOR (Figure 3b).[34] After the addition of 1 × 10−<sup>3</sup> m SnCl4 into the electrolyte, the EOR activity of Rh NSs/C significantly increased (Figure 3a and Figure S14a: Supporting Information). Despite the similar enhancement at the range of 0.5–0.55 VRHE, 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs/C exhibited much higher EOR activity than that of Rh NSs/C + 1 × 10−<sup>3</sup> m SnCl4 at 0.6–0.8 VRHE, which further confirmed the significance of Rh–SnO2 interface on EOR (Figure 3a). Moreover, 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs/C and Rh NSs/C were used as catalysts for methanol oxidation reaction (MOR). As shown in Figure 3b and Figure S14b (Supporting Information), compared to the slight enhancement on the activity of MOR, 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs/C exhibited significant enhancement on the activity of EOR, suggesting that Rh–SnO2 interface could significantly promote the catalytic cleavage of CC bond in C2H5OH. In addition, the stability of catalysts was evaluated using CVs (Figure S15, Supporting Information) and the chronoamperometric method (Figure 3c). During the

www.advmat.de

Figure 3. Electrochemical performances on different catalysts. a) Chronoamperometry data at the indicated potentials in 0.1 M KOH + 0.5 M  $C_2H_5OH$  of  $0.2SnO_2$ –Rh NSs/C, Rh NSs/C, and Rh NSs/C +  $1\times10^{-3}$  M SnCl<sub>4</sub>. b) Stead state current at the indicated potentials for EOR and MOR of  $0.2SnO_2$ –Rh NSs/C and Rh NSs/C. c) I–t at 0.65 V<sub>RHE</sub> of  $0.2SnO_2$ –Rh NSs/C and Rh NSs/C in 0.1 M KOH + 0.5 M  $C_2H_5OH$  for 1 h. d) CO stripping curves of  $0.2SnO_2$ –Rh NSs/C and Rh NSs/C in 0.1 M KOH. e) CO-DRIFTS spectra of  $0.2SnO_2$ –Rh NSs/C and Rh NSs/C.

CVs sweeping, the EOR activities of Rh NSs/C and 0.2SnO<sub>2</sub>–Rh NSs/C gradually decreased with the increased CVs cycles, and 0.2SnO<sub>2</sub>–Rh NSs/C displayed a much slower decreasing rate than Rh NSs/C, suggesting the improved stability of 0.2SnO<sub>2</sub>–Rh NSs/C, suggesting Information). The MA and SA of 0.2SnO<sub>2</sub>–Rh NSs/C for EOR after 500 CVs cycles were 151.0 mA mg<sub>Rh</sub><sup>-1</sup> and 0.12 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively, which were 5.5 and 5.4 times higher than those of Rh NSs/C (Figure S15b, Supporting Information). The enhanced stability of 0.2SnO<sub>2</sub>–Rh NSs/C was further confirmed by the chronoamperometric experiment. The retention of current for 0.2SnO<sub>2</sub>–Rh NSs/C (46.0%) at 0.65 V<sub>RHE</sub> after 1 h was much higher that of Rh NSs/C (23.8%) under the same conditions (Figure 3c). Moreover, the EOR activity of 0.2SnO<sub>2</sub>–Rh NSs/C was recovered by 10 CV cycles in 0.1 M KOH + 0.5 M C<sub>2</sub>H<sub>5</sub>OH at 0.05–1.25 V<sub>RHE</sub>,

and no obvious decay in the EOR activity after 5 consecutive chronoamperometric cycles at  $0.78~V_{RHE}$  for 5 h demonstrated the excellent stability of  $0.2SnO_2$ –Rh NSs/C for EOR (Figure S16, Supporting Information). Additionally, TEM image of the spent  $0.2SnO_2$ –Rh NSs/C showed that the structure of  $0.2SnO_2$ –Rh NSs/C maintained after the chronoamperometric experiment (Figure S17, Supporting Information). The aforementioned results implied that  $0.2SnO_2$ –Rh NSs/C could be used as highly active, selective, and stable catalyst for EOR.

Considering CO is the key intermediate of C1 pathway during EOR, [35] the electrochemical tests were performed on 0.2SnO<sub>2</sub>–Rh NSs/C and Rh NSs/C after CO adsorption to further study the potential mechanism of EOR at the Rh–SnO<sub>2</sub> interface. As shown in Figure 3d, an intense peak appeared in the forward scanning curve (0.4–1.1 V<sub>RHE</sub>) in the first CV cycle, which was

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.advmat.de**

ascribed to CO oxidation. Compared to the Rh NSs/C with a potential of 0.819 VRHE, the peak of CO oxidation for 0.2SnO2– Rh NSs/C negatively shifted by 93 mV (0.726 VRHE), suggesting the enhanced activity for CO electrocatalytic oxidation over 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs/C.[36] Furthermore, the diffuse reflectance infrared Fourier transform spectroscopy (DRIFTS) was used to study the CO adsorption of 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs/C and Rh NSs/C. The detailed fitting results of CO-DRIFTS spectra were shown in Figure 3e. For Rh NSs/C, the bands at 2085, 2052, 2023, and 1838 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> were ascribed to the symmetric vibration of multicarbonyls at Rh edge sites (Rh(CO)2, the asymmetric vibration of multicarbonyls at Rh edge sites (Rh(CO)2), CO terminal adsorption, and CO bridge adsorption, respectively (Figure 3e, black curve).[37] For 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs/C, the peak intensities of multicarbonyls at Rh edge sites and CO bridge adsorption on 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs/C strongly weakened, despite the intense peak for CO terminal adsorption (Figure 3e, red curve). Moreover, the band of CO bridge adsorption in the CO-DRIFTS spectrum of 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs/C (1860 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> ) shifted to 1838 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> compared with that of Rh NSs/C, which was attributed to the interfacial synergy at Rh–SnO2 interface.[38] To further study the influence of Rh–SnO2 interfacial synergy on CO adsorption, CO temperature-programmed desorption (CO-TPD) measurement was performed on Rh NSs/C and 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs/C (Figure S18,

**Figure 4.** a) Surface valence band photoemission spectra and b) Rh 3d XPS spectra of 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs/C and Rh NSs/C. c) Sn 3d XPS spectrum of 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs/C. d) O 1s XPS spectra of 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs/C and Rh NSs/C. e) Schematic illustration of the mechanism for EOR on 0.2SnO2–Rh NSs/C.

www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.advmat.de

Supporting Information). Compared to the CO-TPD curve of Rh NSs/C (black curve), the peaks corresponding to CO adsorption obviously shifted to lower temperature (red curve), indicating that the strong interaction at Rh–SnO<sub>2</sub> interface greatly weakened the CO adsorption. The aforementioned results indicated that the Rh–SnO<sub>2</sub> interface strongly weakened the adsorption of CO and enhanced the oxidation of CO<sub>ad</sub>, leading to the improved stability of 0.2SnO<sub>2</sub>–Rh NSs/C for EOR.

The d-band centers of 0.2SnO2-Rh NSs/C and Rh NSs/C were evaluated by the surface valence band photoemission spectra, and the surface properties of 0.2SnO2-Rh NSs/C and Rh NSs/C catalysts were further studied via X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) measurement. Compared to the d-band center of 4.82 eV for Rh NSs/C, a significant upshift of d-band center was observed for 0.2SnO<sub>2</sub>-Rh NSs/C (4.55 eV) (Figure 4a). The upshift of d-band center could significantly boost the activity toward the dissociation of C-C bond and the oxidation of intermediates (\*CO and \*CH3), and thus further enhanced the activity, selectivity and stability of catalyst for EOR.[39,40] We estimated the surface ratio of Rh to Sn via XPS measurement (Figure S19, Supporting Information). The molar ratios of Rh/Sn on the surface of Rh-SnO2 NSs were 76.0/24.0, 61.6/38.4, and 40.5/59.5, respectively. Considering the strong dependence of Rh/Sn ratio and EOR activity for Rh-SnO<sub>2</sub> NSs (Figure 2 and Figure S12: Supporting Information), we concluded that the interfacial interaction in Rh-SnO2 NSs, which was highly depended on the compositions of Rh-SnO2 NSs, could greatly promote the EOR performance. [41] Several peaks were observed at 307.3, 312.0, 308.6, and 313.3 eV in the Rh 3d XPS spectra, which were ascribed to Rh<sup>0</sup> 3d<sub>5/2</sub>, Rh<sup>0</sup> 3d<sub>3/2</sub>, Rh<sup>3+</sup>  $3d_{5/2}$ , and Rh<sup>3+</sup>  $3d_{3/2}$ , respectively (Figure 4b). [42,43] Rh<sup>0</sup> peaks positively shifted by 0.2 eV in the XPS spectrum of 0.2SnO2-Rh NSs/C compared with that of Rh NSs/C, suggesting the electron transfer from Rh to Sn species at the Rh-SnO<sub>2</sub> interface in 0.2SnO<sub>2</sub>-Rh NSs/C. For Sn 3d XPS spectra, the intense peaks at 487.4, 496.6, 485.6, and 495.8 eV were assigned to Sn<sup>4+</sup> 3d<sub>5/2</sub>,  $\mathrm{Sn^{4+}}\ 3d_{3/2}$ ,  $\mathrm{Sn^0}\ 3d_{5/2}$ , and  $\mathrm{Sn^0}\ 3d_{3/2}$ , respectively (Figure 4c). The peaks at 533.6 and 532.2 eV in the O 1s XPS of Rh NSs/C were indexed as the adsorbed OH species (OH<sub>2d</sub>) and O species (O<sub>av</sub>) in RhO<sub>x</sub>, respectively (Figure 4d).<sup>[42]</sup> Additionally, a new peak corresponding to Oox in SnO2 appeared at 531.1 eV in the XPS spectrum of 0.2SnO2-Rh NSs/C (Figure 4d). Based on the aforementioned results, we concluded that the strong interaction between Rh and Sn species at the Rh-SnO2 interface significantly boosted the EOR performance in terms of high activity, high selectivity, and stability (Figure 4e).

In summary, we demonstrated that the Rh–SnO $_2$  interfacial synergy significantly boosted the selective EOR to CO $_2$  under alkaline condition. The optimized catalysts of  $0.2 \text{SnO}_2$ –Rh NSs/C exhibited enhanced alkaline EOR performance with a MA of 213.2 mA mg<sub>Rh</sub><sup>-1</sup> and a C1 pathway selectivity of 72.8% in 0.1 M KOH + 0.5 M C $_2$ H $_5$ OH. Mechanism studies implied that the strong synergy at the Rh–SnO $_2$  interface significantly facilitated the electron transfer from Rh to Sn species, leading to the enhanced EOR activity. Moreover, the Rh–SnO $_2$  interface favored the C1 pathway and promoted the oxidation of poisonous intermediates (\*CO and \*CH $_3$ ), resulting in the enhanced CO $_2$  selectivity and the improved catalyst durability for EOR. This work highlights the significance of interface on

catalyst for EOR, and also promotes the fundamental research for the design of efficient catalysts via interface modification.

#### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## Acknowledgements

This work was financially supported by Ministry of Science and Technology (2016YFA0204100, 2017YFA0208200), the National Natural Science Foundation of China (21571135, 51802206), Young Thousand Talented Program, Jiangsu Province Natural Science Fund for Distinguished Young Scholars (BK20170003), Natural Science Foundation of Jiangsu Province (BK20180846), the Priority Academic Program Development of Jiangsu Higher Education Institutions (PAPD), and the start-up supports from Xiamen University.

#### Conflict of Interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Keywords**

ethanol oxidation reaction, interfaces Rh nanosheets, selectivity, SnO<sub>2</sub>

Received: August 25, 2020 Revised: November 9, 2020 Published online:

- Z. W. Seh, J. Kibsgaard, C. F. Dickens, I. Chorkendorff, J. K. Nørskov, T. F. Jaramillo, Science 2017, 355, eaad4998.
- [2] C. Bianchini, P. K. Shen, Chem. Rev. 2009, 109, 4183.
- [3] A. L. Wang, X. J. He, X. F. Lu, H. Xu, Y. X. Tong, G. R. Li, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2015, 54, 3669.
- [4] J. Goldemberg, Science 2007, 315, 808.
- [5] E. A. Monyoncho, S. N. Steinmann, C. Michel, E. A. Baranova, T. K. Woo, P. Sautet, ACS Catal. 2016, 6, 4894.
- [6] L. Huang, X. Zhang, Q. Wang, Y. Han, Y. Fang, S. Dong, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2018, 140, 1142.
- [7] W. Huang, X. Y. Ma, H. Wang, R. Feng, J. Zhou, P. N. Duchesne, P. Zhang, F. Chen, N. Han, F. Zhao, J. Zhou, W.-B. Cai, Y. Li, Adv. Mater. 2017, 29, 1703057.
- [8] Z. Chen, J. Zhang, Y. Zhang, Y. Liu, X. Han, C. Zhong, W. Hu, Y. Deng, *Nano Energy* 2017, 42, 353.
- [9] L. Zhang, Q. Chang, H. Chen, M. Shao, Nano Energy 2016, 29, 198.
- [10] M. Luo, Y. Sun, L. Wang, S. Guo, Adv. Energy Mater. 2017, 7, 1602073.
- [11] Y. Y. Yang, J. Ren, Q. X. Li, Z. Y. Zhou, S. G. Sun, W. B. Cai, ACS Catal. 2014, 4, 798.
- [12] H. Wang, Z. Jusys, R. J. Behm, J. Power Sources 2006, 154, 351.
- [13] K. Liu, W. Wang, P. Guo, J. Ye, Y. Wang, P. Li, Z. Lyu, Y. Geng, M. Liu, S. Xie, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2019, 29, 1806300.
- [14] N. Erini, V. Beermann, M. Gocyla, M. Gliech, M. Heggen, R. E. Dunin-Borkowski, P. Strasser, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2017, 56, 6533
- [15] S. H. Han, H. M. Liu, P. Chen, J. X. Jiang, Y. Chen, Adv. Energy Mater. 2018, 8, 1801326.

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.advmat.de**

- [16] P. Wang, H. Cui, C. Wang, *Nano Energy* **2019**, *66*, 104196.
- [17] A. Kowal, M. Li, M. Shao, K. Sasaki, M. B. Vukmirovic, J. Zhang, N. S. Marinkovic, P. Liu, A. I. Frenkel, R. R. Adzic, *Nat. Mater.* **2009**, *8*, 325.
- [18] J. C. M. Silva, R. F. B. De Souza, L. S. Parreira, E. T. Neto, M. L. Calegaro, M. C. Santos, *Appl. Catal., B* **2010**, *99*, 265.
- [19] W. Du, Q. Wang, D. Saxner, N. A. Deskins, D. Su, J. E. Krzanowski, A. I. Frenkel, X. Teng, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2011**, *133*, 15172.
- [20] M. Li, D. A. Cullen, K. Sasaki, N. S. Marinkovic, K. More, R. R. Adzic, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 132.
- [21] E. Drzymała, G. Gruzeł, A. Pajor-Świerzy, J. Depciuch, R. Socha, A. Kowal, P. Warszyński, M. Parlinska-Wojtan, *J. Nanopart. Res.* **2018**, *20*, 144.
- [22] D. D. James, R. B. Moghaddam, B. Chen, P. G. Pickup, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2018**, *165*, 215.
- [23] J. W. Zhang, J. Y. Ye, Q. Y. Fan, Y. T. Jiang, Y. F. Zhu, H. Q. Li, Z. M. Cao, Q. Kuang, J. Cheng, J. Zheng, Z. X. Xie, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 11232.
- [24] N. Zhang, Q. Shao, Y. Pi, J. Guo, X. Huang, *Chem. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 5009.
- [25] H. Duan, N. Yan, R. Yu, C. Chang, G. Zhou, H. Hu, H. Rong, Z. Niu, J. Mao, H. Asakura, T. Tanaka, P. J. Dyson, J. Li, Y. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2014**, *5*, 3093.
- [26] S. Bai, F. Liu, B. Huang, F. Li, H. Lin, T. Wu, M. Sun, J. Wu, Q. Shao, Y. Xu, X. Huang, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 954.
- [27] K. Lee, H. Wei, A. V. Blake, C. M. Donahue, J. M. Keith, S. R. Daly, *Dalton Trans.* **2016**, *45*, 9774.
- [28] S. Mukerjee, J. McBreen, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **1999**, *146*, 600.

- [29] C. Zhu, B. Lan, R. L. Wei, C. N. Wang, Y. Y. Yang, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 4046.
- [30] Z. Fan, H. Zhang, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2016**, *45*, 63.
- [31] Y. Zhu, L. Bu, Q. Shao, X. Huang, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 6607.
- [32] W. Hong, C. Shang, J. Wang, E. Wang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2015**, *8*, 2910.
- [33] M. Chen, Y. Meng, J. Zhou, G. Diao, *J. Power Sources* **2014**, *265*, 110.
- [34] Q. He, B. Shyam, K. Macounová, P. Krtil, D. Ramaker, S. Mukerjee, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2012**, *134*, 8655.
- [35] H. Liu, J. Li, L. Wang, Y. Tang, B. Y. Xia, Y. Chen, *Nano Res.* **2017**, *10*, 3324.
- [36] Y. Zuo, D. Rao, S. Li, T. Li, G. Zhu, S. Chen, L. Song, Y. Chai, H. Han, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *31*, 1704171.
- [37] F. Martinez-Espinar, P. Blondeau, P. Nolis, B. Chaudret, C. Claver, S. Castillón, C. Godard, *J. Catal.* **2017**, *354*, 113.
- [38] J. C. Matsubu, S. Zhang, L. DeRita, N. S. Marinkovic, J. G. Chen, G. W. Graham, X. Pan, P. Christopher, *Nat. Chem.* **2017**, *9*, 120.
- [39] J. Fan, S. Yu, K. Qi, C. Liu, L. Zhang, H. Zhang, X. Cui, W. Zheng, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 8531.
- [40] D. Kim, J. Resasco, Y. Yu, A. M. Asiri, P. Yang, *Nat. Commun.* **2014**, *5*, 4948.
- [41] A. Boffa, C. Lin, A. T. Bell, G. A. Somorjai, *J. Catal.* **1994**, *149*, 149.
- [42] L. Zhang, M. R. Ball, Y. Liu, T. F. Kuech, G. W. Huber, M. Mavrikakis, I. Hermans, J. A. Dumesic, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 1810.
- [43] X. Huang, D. Teschner, M. Dimitrakopoulou, A. Fedorov, B. Frank, R. Kraehnert, F. Rosowski, H. Kaiser, S. A. Schunk, C. Kuretschka, R. Schlogl, M. G. Willinger, A. Trunschke, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 8709.