---
source: Fan 等 - 2024 - 2D PtRhPb Mesoporous Nanosheets with Surface‐Clean Active Sites for Complete Ethanol Oxidation Elect.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 28.991s
generated: 2026-01-09T04:41:55.297159Z
---

Check for updates

# 2D PtRhPb Mesoporous Nanosheets with Surface-Clean Active Sites for Complete Ethanol Oxidation Electrocatalysis

Dongping Fan, Huiqin Yao, Lizhi Sun, Hao Lv, and Ben Liu\*

The development of active and selective metal electrocatalysts for complete ethanol oxidation reaction (EOR) into desired C1 products is extremely promising for practical application of direct ethanol fuel cells. Despite some encouraging achievements, their activity and selectivity remain unsatisfactory. In this work, it is reported that 2D PtRhPb mesoporous nanosheets (MNSs) with anisotropic structure and surface-clean metal site perform perfectly for complete EOR electrocatalysis in both three-electrode and two-electrode systems. Different to the traditional routes, a selective etching strategy is developed to produce surface-clean mesopores while retaining parent anisotropy quasi-single-crystalline structure without the mesopore-forming surfactants. This method also allows the general synthesis of surface-clean mesoporous metals with other compositions and structures. When being performed for alkaline EOR electrocatalysis, the best PtRhPb MNSs deliver remarkably high activity (7.8 A mg<sup>-1</sup>) and superior C1 product selectivity (70% of Faradaic efficiency), both of which are much better than reported electrocatalysts. High performance is assigned to multiple structural and compositional synergies that not only stabilized key OH<sub>ads</sub> intermediate by surface-clean mesopores but also separated the chemisorption of two carbons in ethanol by adjacent Pt and Rh sites, which facilitate the oxidation cleavage of stable C—C bond for complete EOR electrocatalysis.

1. Introduction

Alkaline fuel cells (FCs) represent indispensable and prospective devices that produce sustainable electrical energy based on

D. Fan, L. Sun, H. Lv, B. Liu
Key Laboratory of Green Chemistry and Technology of Ministry of
Education
College of Chemistry
Sichuan University
Chengdu 610064, China
E-mail: ben.liu@scu.edu.cn

School of Basic Medical Sciences
Ningxia Medical University
Yinchuan 750004, China
H. Lv
School of Chemistry and Chemical Eng

School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Shanghai Jiao Tong University Shanghai 200240, China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202407940

DOI: 10.1002/adma.202407940

the anode electrocatalytic oxidation of alcohols.[1] Of various alcohols applicable, ethanol has been recently recognized as an environmentally friendly, non-toxic, and high energy-density fuel, which has exhibited high potential for practical application of direct ethanol fuel cell (DEFC) in heavy-duty trucks and ocean freighters.[2] In anode ethanol oxidation reaction (EOR), there are two parallel yet competing electrochemical pathways, including complete C1 pathway and incomplete C2 pathway.[3] Generally, ethanol is incompletely electrooxidized into acetic acid through a C2 pathway that exchanges four electrons  $(CH_3CH_2OH + 4 OH^- \rightarrow CH_3COOH + 3)$  $H_2O + 4 e^{-}$ ).<sup>[4]</sup> Differently, the C1 reaction pathway involves the cleavage of high-energy C-C bond, where ethanol is completely electrooxidized into more desired  $CO_2/HCO_3^-/CO_3^{2-}$  in an alkaline solution (CH<sub>3</sub>CH<sub>2</sub>OH + 16 OH<sup>-</sup>  $\rightarrow$  2  $CO_3^{2-} + 11 H_2O + 12 e^{-}$ . [5] Remarkably, the complete C1 pathway that involves 12 electrons and releases the higher electrical energy is more electrochemically favorable for the DEFCs. However, anode

EOR electrocatalysis generally suffers from insufficient C1 pathway selectivity because of the thermodynamic and kinetic challenges of stable C—C bond cleavage step. [2c,6] A promising strategy to promote C1 pathway is alloying active platinum (Pt)/palladium (Pd) with other oxophillic metals, e.g., Rh, Cu, or Co, in which adjacent metal sites with distinct catalytic properties separate the chemisorption of two carbons in ethanol and thus promote the oxidation cleavage of C—C bond by adsorbed hydroxide (OH $_{\rm ads}$ ). [7] Despite some exciting achievements in the past decade, the electrochemical activity and C1 pathway selectivity of alkaline EOR electrocatalysis remain greatly unsatisfactory.

Recently, the nanostructuring strategies have been put forward to enhance the electrocatalytic activity and selectivity of metal catalysts.<sup>[8]</sup> As the second-generation mesoporous materials, mesoporous metals have disclosed functional structural synergies and performed well in electrocatalysis.<sup>[9]</sup> Especially, concave/convex metal mesopores structurally replicate the pockets of active sites in enzymes and thus hold enzymatic activity and selectivity in some important electrocatalytic reactions.<sup>[10]</sup> We have previously developed PdCu mesoporous nanoparticles (NPs), which optimized the chemisorption of active H\* intermediate and promoted 8e<sup>-</sup> reduction pathway in complete

nitrate reduction, adopting high activity and selectivity for sustainable ammonia electrosynthesis.[\[11\]](#page-8-0) Nevertheless, traditional routes for the synthesis of mesoporous metals in an aqueous solution generally require the mesopore-forming agents, e.g., amphiphilic surfactants and/or polymers, which not only complicates the structural controllability but also occupies some active metal sites for catalysis.[\[10d,12\]](#page-8-0) As a result, most of the functional mesoporous metals reported previously are structurally isotropic (spherical) and/or atomically surface-occupied, remarkably precluding their application at the current stage. Therefore, it is extremely desirable to develop a new and very robust synthetic strategy to prepare anisotropic mesoporous metals, e.g., high-surface 2D nanosheets,[\[6,13\]](#page-8-0) with surface-clean metal sites that theoretically perform perfectly in complete EOR electrocatalysis.

In this work, a surfactant-free synthetic route was reported for robust preparation of 2D PtRhPb mesoporous nanosheets (MNSs) with anisotropic quasi-single-crystalline nanostructure and surface-clean metal site for complete EOR electrocatalysis. Different to traditional routes, this synthesis relied on the selective etching of active Pb and/or Rh metals in Pb-rich Pt0.75Rh0.25Pb1 intermetallic NSs that thus produced abundant surface-clean mesopores while retaining 2D anisotropic and quasi-single-crystalline structure in the absence of any mesoporeforming templates. Meanwhile, the synthetic route has easily extended to other mesoporous metals with different metal compositions (for example PtPb and PtCuPb MNSs) and nanostructures (for example PtRhPb NPs and nanooctahedrons (NOs)). When being performed for alkaline EOR electrocatalysis, the best sample – PtRhPb MNSs – disclosed impressive performance, including high mass activity of 7.8 A mg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and superior C1 product selectivity of 70% as well as remarkable chronoamperometric and cycling stability. Moreover, PtRhPb MNSs hold remarkable EOR performance when further coupling with the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) as the cathode reaction in the two-electrode system. To the best of our knowledge, 2D PtRhPb MNSs represented one of the best active and selective electrocatalysts in complete EOR electrocatalysis.

# **2. Results and Discussion**

Anisotropic PtRhPb MNSs were synthesized by an easy twostep route. First, 2D Pt0.75Rh0.25Pb1 intermetallic NSs were prepared by a solvent-phase route as the parent template,[\[14\]](#page-8-0) since distributed Pb atoms of ordered intermetallics could effectively facilitate selective etching to form more uniform mesopores (Figure S1, Supporting Information). Then, abundant mesopores were released by directly etching the parent Pt0.75Rh0.25Pb1 NSs with HNO3 in H2O without using any extra mesopore-forming templates. Finally, surface-clean and anisotropic PtRhPb MNSs were obtained by being washed with H2O/ethanol several times. Low-magnification transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and high-angle annular dark-field scanning TEM (HAADF-STEM) images showed high homogeneity and purity of products (**Figure 1**[a;](#page-2-0) Figure S2, Supporting Information). PtRhPb MNSs were nearly 2D anisotropic hexagonal nanostructures with an edge length of 15–40 nm and thickness of 5–8 nm. There were abundant mesopores around and/or across 2D MNSs. Highmagnification HAADF-STEM image further revealed the mesoporous structure of products (Figure [1b\)](#page-2-0). Both mesopore size and wall thickness of MNSs were determined as 2–4 nm. More interestingly, the selected-area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern of an MNS displayed a nearly single series of spots of quasi-single-crystalline structure, corresponding to the [110] axes perpendicular to the MNS plane (Figure [1c\)](#page-2-0). Meanwhile, highresolution TEM images collected from randomly selected domains in the MNS showed the nearly same lattice fringes and directions with *d*-spacing distances of 0.234 and 0.197 nm, respectively, which were ascribed to the (111) and (200) planes of a face-centered cubic (*fcc*) nanocrystal (Figure [1d\)](#page-2-0). A similar crystalline structure was also confirmed by corresponding Fourier diffractogram (FD) patterns, further indicating intriguing quasisingle-crystalline phase of 2D PtRhRb MNSs with (110) exposed surface facet. HAADF-STEM energy dispersive X-ray (EDX) mapping images were further required to reveal atomic distributions of products. As shown in Figure [1e,](#page-2-0) all three metals, including Pt, Rh, and Pb, uniformly dispersed in the MNS without any phase separation, suggesting its well-alloyed compositions. The Pt/Rh/Pb atomic ratio of PtRhPb MNSs was determined as 68:16:16 (Figure S3, Supporting Information), which was almost the same as the result collected in the inductively coupled plasmamass spectrometry (65:20:15), confirming successful synthesis of anisotropic PtRhPb MNSs.

Atomic arrangements of 2D PtRhPb MNSs were further revealed by the high-resolution HAADF-STEM image from the plane view (Figure [1f\)](#page-2-0). Remarkably, all three metals were randomly arranged along the MNS in a *fcc* and quasisingle-crystalline structure. Similar to the result in the highresolution TEM images, the MNSs exposed the (110) crystalline facet from the plane view. Moreover, atomic resolution HAADF-STEM images further showed abundant high-index crystalline facets around the randomly distributed mesopores (Figure [1g–i;](#page-2-0) Figure S4, Supporting Information). Different to the atomic arrangements on the plane surface, metal atoms around the mesopores were low-coordinated that were more active for electrocatalysis.[\[6\]](#page-8-0) Meanwhile, their mesoporous surfaces were atomically clean (ligand-free) because the synthesis was performed in the absence of any mesopore-forming surfactants/polymers. Furthermore, the equalized rainbow color image revealed the distinct height differences in the region collected in Figure [1f,](#page-2-0) further indicating that they were structurally mesoporous and quasi-single-crystalline (Figure [1j\)](#page-2-0). All the results definitely confirmed successful synthesis of 2D PtRhPb MNSs with quasi-single-crystalline structure, randomly distributed mesopore, and surface-clean metal site (Figure [1k\)](#page-2-0). More importantly, anisotropic MNSs with surface-clean mesopores were extensively extended to other metal compositions, e.g., PtPb and PtCuPb (Figure [1l,m\)](#page-2-0), potentially applying for the discovery of new materials and the exploration of applications in the future.

The above physicochemical characterization corroborated that 2D MNSs reported in this work were anisotropic mesoporous nanostructure with surface-clean metal site, quasi-singlecrystalline structure with (110)-exposed facet, and homogeneously distributed metals with well-alloyed composition. As far as we know, this work represented the first successful surfactantfree synthesis of 2D quasi-single-crystalline MNSs with abundant mesopore and anisotropic nanostructure. Considering the synthetic parameters, we proposed that surface-clean mesopores of MNSs were directly formed by selective etching of active

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** Physicochemical characterization. a) Low-magnification HAADF STEM image, b) HAADF STEM image, c) TEM and (inset) corresponding SAED images, d) high-resolution TEM and corresponding FD pattern images collected in (c), e) HAADF STEM EDX mapping images, f) highmagnification HAADF STEM image, g–i) high-resolution HAADF STEM images and j) equalized rainbow color mode image obtained in (f), and k) schematic illustration of 2D PtRhPb MNSs. HAADF STEM and corresponding EDX mapping images of l) PtPb MNSs and m) PtCuPb MNSs.

Pb and/or Rh metals within non-porous Pb-rich Pt0.75Rh0.25Pb1 NSs by HNO3 without using any mesopore-forming surfactants/polymers. The time-dependent structural evolution of 2D PtRhPb MNSs was thus required by detailed TEM observations. Before being etched by HNO3, parent Pt0.75Rh0.25Pb1 NSs were structurally ultrathin NSs with smooth (nonporous) surfaces (**Figure 2**[a\)](#page-3-0). High-resolution TEM image and corresponding FD pattern further showed a nearly single-crystalline intermetallic phase. After being reacted with HNO3 for 5 min, some uneven sites (holes) were produced on the surface of NSs, indicating that some Pb atoms were gradually etched from the 2D Pt0.75Rh0.25Pb1 intermetallic phase (Figure [2b\)](#page-3-0). Meanwhile, the parent intermetallic phase was destroyed partially. With more Pb atoms being etched, some remarkable holes (mesopores) were formed (20 min) and became larger (1 h) without changing the 2D ultrathin nanostructure (Figure [2c,d\)](#page-3-0). Different to parent phase structure, however, single-crystalline phase was destroyed partially in these periods, suggesting that the removal of Pb metals crystallographically changed the phase structure of 2D PtRhPb MNSs. The intermetallic phase was completely destroyed and recrystallized into a quasi-single-crystalline *fcc* phase with etching time of 2 h. After being reacted for 10 h, moreover, the mesopores of 2D MNSs became larger while maintaining nearly 2D nanostruc-

ture, suggesting the precise controllability of mesoporous structure (Figure [2e\)](#page-3-0).

Atomic factions of 2D PtRhPb MNSs were further monitored by HAADF STEM EDX mapping images during the structural evolution (Figure S5, Supporting Information). With being etched by HNO3, active Pb was quickly dissolved from ≈48% to 16% (2 h) and finally to 2.8% (12 h) (Figure [2f\)](#page-3-0). In sharp comparison, Pt atomic fraction was gradually increased from 39% to 68% (2 h) and finally to 82% (12 h). Differently, the Rh fraction was first increased from 13% to 18% (1 h), and then slightly decreased from 16% (2 h) to 15% (12 h). The result suggested that Rh was also dissolved partially from parent PtRhPb MNSs for the longer etching times. Meanwhile, average mesopore sizes were gradually increased from 1.2 nm (20 min) to 3.2 nm (2 h) and finally to 5.8 nm (12 h), indicating selective etching synthesis of 2D MNSs in the absence of any mesopore-forming templates. The formation of mesopores was also presented by the electron spin resonance (ESR) spectroscopy.[\[15\]](#page-8-0) As shown in Figure [2g,](#page-3-0) ESR signals were first increased after being etched for 1 h, indicating gradual formation of defect metal sites around the mesopores. However, the larger mesopores formed with the longer etching time (2 h) slightly decreased the number of active sites, which caused the lower defect degrees, resulting in a decrease of ESR

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** Formation mechanism. TEM images, high-resolution TEM images and corresponding FD patterns of 2D PtRhPb MNPs with the etching times of a) 0 min, b) 5 min, c) 20 min, d) 1 h, and e) 12 h. f) Atomic fractions of Pt/Pb/Rh and mesopore sizes, g) ESR patterns, and h) XRD patterns of 2D PtRhPb MNPs with different etching times. i) Proposed formation process of 2D PtRhPb MNPs.

signals. The results strongly corresponded to the structural evolution observed in TEM images, further highlighting the selective etching synthesis of 2D PtRhPb MNSs. Moreover, such a selective etching strategy for producing surface-clean mesopores of 2D MNSs has also been confirmed by adjusting Pb amounts in parent PtRhPb NSs, in which less Pb amounts produced more random mesopores (Figure S6, Supporting Information).

Powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were further collected to reveal the crystallographically structural evolution of 2D PtRhPb MNSs (Figure 2h). As expected, parent Pt0.75Rh0.25Pb1 NSs exhibited characteristic diffraction peaks, indicating they were ordered L10 intermetallic structures. After being etched for 5 min, some new yet weak peaks assigned to Pt/Rh appeared, indicating the co-existence of intermetallic and *fcc* phases. The diffraction peaks of *fcc* Pt/Rh became stronger for 20 min. After being further etched for 1 h, more importantly, intermetallic phase almost disappeared, indicating the formation of phasepure *fcc* structure. The diffraction peaks were slightly shifted toward more negative degrees, followed by etching more Pb and Rh (12 h). The results further highlighted that selective etching of active Pb and/or Rh atoms facilitated the intermetallic (L10)-torandomly alloyed (*fcc*) crystalline evolution of 2D PtRhPb MNSs (Figure 2i). Following the strategy, other nanostructures, including NPs and NOs, of mesoporous PtRhPb were prepared accordingly, further highlighting the generality and applicability of this newly developed route (Figure S7, Supporting Information).

Anisotropic PtRhPb MNSs featured multiple advantages, including surface-clean and undercoordinated metal site, quasisingle-crystalline structure, trimetallic alloyed composition, and 2D mesoporous structure, which potentially behaved well in promoting the oxidation cleavage of stable C–C bond for complete EOR electrocatalysis. Here, PtRhPb MNSs were chosen as the proof-of-concept electrocatalyst because of its best EOR performance (Figure S8, Supporting Information). In parallel, PtPb MNSs, PtRhPb NSs, and commercial Pt NPs were also investigated as the counterpart electrocatalysts for sharp comparison (Figure S9, Supporting Information). Cyclic voltammetry (CV) curves were first collected with the potential range of 0 and 1.2 V (vs reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) in N2-saturated 1.0 M KOH (**Figure 3**[a\)](#page-4-0). All four electrocatalysts showed a typical anodic signal at 0.6 and 0.9 V, which was ascribed to the electrochemical oxidation of metallic Pt into PtO.[\[7e\]](#page-8-0) In comparison, the cathodic

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** Electrocatalytic performance. a) CV curves of PtRhPb MNSs, PtPb MNSs, PtRhPb NPs, and Pt NPs collected in 1.0 M KOH. b) CV curves, c) summarized mass activities and potentials (0.50 A mgNM<sup>−</sup>1), and d) FEC1 values of PtRhPb MNSs, PtPb MNSs, PtRhPb NPs, and Pt NPs collected in 1.0 M KOH and 1.0 M ethanol. e) FEC1 values of PtRhPb MNSs collected in different potentials. f) Comparisons of EOR activity and FEC1 with the state-of-the-art electrocatalysts reported in the literature. g) Positive-going CV curves of PtRhPb MNSs and Pt NPs before and after 5 000 cycles. h) EOR chronoamperometry curves of PtRhPb MNSs (red lines) and Pt NPs (grey lines) with seven test cycles.

peak at 0.4 and 0.8 V was assigned to the electroreduction of PtO into Pt. Remarkably, PtRhPb MNSs disclosed slightly larger oxidation/reduction peaks, indicating the higher electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) of 30.3 m<sup>2</sup> gNM<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> for alkaline electrocatalysis, when being normalized to noble metal (NM) (Pt and Rh) (Figure S10, Supporting Information).

Alkaline EOR electrocatalysis was then evaluated in N2 saturated 1.0 M KOH containing 1.0 M ethanol. Figure 3b shows the polarization curves of four electrocatalysts, with the broad anodic signals assigned to the electrochemical oxidation of ethanol and the sharp cathodic signals attributed to the removal of oxidized intermediates (CH3COads and COads).[\[3a\]](#page-8-0) Significantly, anisotropic PtRhPb MNSs exhibited a higher mass activity of 7.8 A mgNM<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and more negative potential of 0.23 V (at 0.50 A mgNM<sup>−</sup>1) for alkaline EOR electrocatalysis (Figure 3c). In sharp comparison, mass activities and potentials of PtPb MNSs, PtRhPb NPs, and Pt NPs were 4.3 A mgNM<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and 0.48 V, 4.7 A mgNM<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and 0.48 V, and 1.2 A mgNM<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and 0.52 V, respectively. The high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy were further performed to analyze the products of PtRhPb MNSs collected in alkaline EOR electrocatalysis (Figures S11 and S12, Supporting Information). As summarized in Figure 3d, the 2D PtRhPb MNSs hold the potential-dependent Faradaic efficiency (FEC1) values with the highest FEC1 value of 70% at the optimized potential of 0.725 V. We further compared the FEC1 values of EOR electrocatalysis for different electrocatalysts (Figure S13, Supporting Information). Obviously, more C1 products with remarkable Faradaic efficiency (FEC1) were achieved for PtRhPb MNSs, which was 2.0, 1.7, and 4.9 times higher than that of PtPb MNSs (35%), PtRhPb NPs (42%), and Pt NPs (14.5%) (Figure 3e). Considering high mass activity and impressive FEC1, our PtRhPb MNSs behaved perfectly for complete EOR electrocatalysis even when being compared with the state-of-the-art electrocatalysts reported in the literature (Figure 3f). The results clearly highlighted multiple structural and compositional synergies of 2D PtRhPb MNSs that

remarkably promoted the oxidation cleavage of stable C─C bond for complete EOR electrocatalysis and thus produced higher electrical energy in an alkaline condition.

Electrocatalytic EOR stability of 2D PtRhPb MNSs was also assessed and compared with commercial Pt NPs by cycling and chronoamperometric measurements. As shown in Figure [3g,](#page-4-0) the mass activity of PtRhPb MNSs declined slowly, retaining 70% (5.5 A mgNM<sup>−</sup>1) of initial activity, even after continuous CV tests for 5000 cycles (Figure S14, Supporting Information). In comparison, the mass activity of commercial Pt NPs rapidly decreased and only maintained 22% (0.25 A mgNM−1) of initial activity after CV cycles. Physicochemical characterizations also confirmed that both the structure and composition of PtRhPb MNSs were retained well (Figure S15, Supporting Information) while commercial Pt NPs aggregated into the remarkably bigger ones (Figure S16, Supporting Information). Moreover, the long-term chronoamperometric tests showed that commercial Pt NPs suffered from a dramatically dropped mass activity and became inactive after being performed for 300 s. Differently, 2D PtRhPb MNSs retained the higher mass activity of 1.81 A mgNM<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> after 300 s (Figure [3h\)](#page-4-0). More impressively, the EOR activity of PtRhPb MNSs was almost recovered by replacing it with fresh electrolytes. Continuous seven cycles exhibited a respectable reproducibility, further highlighting the great potential of 2D PtRhPb MNSs for potential practical application in alkaline EOR electrocatalysis.

Electrochemical kinetics were further evaluated to reveal the origin of the superior EOR performance of anisotropic PtRhPb MNSs. Scan rates (*v*) were first investigated for the EOR performance of the four electrocatalysts. Upon the increase of *v*, the mass activities of all electrocatalysts remarkably improved (Figure S17, Supporting Information). When further plotting the relationships between mass activity and *v*1/2, all four electrocatalysts disclosed nearly linear slopes, suggesting the diffusioncontrolled EOR kinetics (**Figure 4**[a\)](#page-6-0).[\[6,16\]](#page-8-0) Specifically, 2D PtRhPb MNSs hold the highest slope of 11.0, which reached 11.2 times higher than that of commercial Pt NPs, indicating the faster electrochemical diffusion kinetics for alkaline EOR. Then, the test temperature-dependent activities were collected to obtain the apparent activation energy (*Ea*) of the electrocatalysts by the Arrhenius equation.[\[16\]](#page-8-0) Similar to the results collected in different *v*, the mass activities were gradually enhanced by the test temperatures (Figure S18, Supporting Information). When further normalizing the relationships between ln(mass activity) and 1/T, the *Ea* values of PtRhPb MNSs, PtPb MNSs, PtRhPb NPs, and Pt NPs were calculated as 7.02 kJ mol<sup>−</sup>1, 9.10 kJ mol<sup>−</sup>1, 13.4 kJ mol<sup>−</sup>1, and 25.7 kJ mol<sup>−</sup>1, respectively (Figure [4b\)](#page-6-0). As presented, PtRhPb MNSs disclosed the lowest *Ea* value, indicating the smallest energy barrier to drive the EOR electrocatalysis. Besides, the electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) also showed the smallest semicircle radii of PtRhPb MNSs (Figure [4c\)](#page-6-0). The results further confirmed that the multiple synergies of 2D mesoporous/quasisingle-crystalline structure and PtRhPb composition overcame the charge-transfer resistance and accelerated electrochemical kinetics, corresponding strongly to the higher activity and C1 selectivity of alkaline EOR electrocatalysis.

In alkaline EOR electrocatalysis, the oxidation removal of CObased intermediates (CH3COads and COads) by adsorbed OH (OHads) is of critical importance in promoting electrochemical performance. We thus conducted electrochemical CO stripping experiment to imitate the oxidation removal of CO-based intermediates. As shown in Figure [4d,](#page-6-0) all four electrocatalysts showed a typical signal in the potential range of 0.6–0.9 V, corresponding to the oxidation of COads. [\[17\]](#page-8-0) Specifically, PtRhPb MNSs disclosed the most negative COads oxidation peak at 0.66 V, which was lower than that of PtPb MNSs (0.70 V), PtRhPb NPs (0.83 V), and Pt NPs (0.87 V). The result clearly confirmed the superior tolerance of PtRhPb MNSs for COads poisoning by OHads and thus promoted alkaline EOR electrocatalysis. Furthermore, electrochemical in situ attenuated total reflection-infrared (ATR-IR) spectroscopy was measured to understand the molecular EOR pathway on 2D PtRhPb MNSs.[\[5b,18\]](#page-8-0) As shown in Figure [4e,](#page-6-0) there were two gradually increased peaks at 1087 and 1042 nm from 0.1 to 1.1 V, corresponding to the enhanced chemisorption of CH3CH2OH. However, the peaks at 1528 and 1442 nm assigned to CH3COOH did not increase accordingly, indicating the lower C2 product selectivity. In sharp comparison, the peaks of C1 products, including CO2, HCO3 <sup>−</sup>, and CO3 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup>, gradually appeared and became stronger. Meanwhile, the decreased intensity of CO\* was also seen. These results indicated that PtRhPb MNSs facilitated the oxidation cleavage of stable C─C bond and achieved more C1 products in alkaline EOR electrocatalysis.

On the basis of the above results, we proposed a reliable EOR mechanism of how PtRhPb MNSs promoted complete EOR electrocatalysis in an alkaline condition (Figure [4f\)](#page-6-0). On the one hand, metal mesoporous structure produced more highly active undercoordinated sites and endowed a confined microenvironment for key OHads intermediate, which optimized the oxidation cleavage of stable C─C bond. Meanwhile, quasi-single-crystalline and anisotropic 2D nanostructure promoted the electron/mass transports and remarkably accelerated the EOR kinetics. On the other hand, trimetallic PtRhPb within mesopores compositionally separated the chemisorption of two carbons of ethanol and OHads intermediate, which synergistically promoted the oxidation cleavage of C─C bond for complete EOR electrocatalysis. Specifically, Pt sites adsorbed the -carbon in ethanol and optimized the dehydrogenation step, while oxophillic Rh and/or Pb sites around adjacent Pt sites optimized the adsorption of key OHads intermediate and facilitated the electrochemical oxidation of -carbon. Meanwhile, trimetallic composition also electronically decreased the cleavage energy of C─C bond, which accelerated the removal of poisoning intermediates and enhanced electrochemical activity for complete EOR electrocatalysis. In addition to structural advantages, these compositional features also promoted the oxidation cleavage of C─C bond and thus achieved high activity and selectivity for complete EOR electrocatalysis (Figure [4g\)](#page-6-0).

Considering high activity of Pt-based electrocatalysts,[\[19\]](#page-8-0) PtRhPb MNSs were also evaluated as a bifunctional electrocatalyst for cathode HER that potentially coupled with anode EOR in the two-electrode system. Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves were first collected in N2-saturated 1.0 M KOH with the electrocatalysts of PtRhPb MNSs and Pt NPs (**Figure 5**[a\)](#page-7-0). The overpotential of PtRhPb MNSs was only 15 mV at 10 mV cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at −0.10 V, while that of commercial Pt NPs held the higher value of 45 mV at −0.10 V. Similarly, PtRhPb MNSs hold the higher TOF values in all potentials, compared to commercial Pt NPs (Figure [5b\)](#page-7-0). Specifically, an impressive turnover frequency (TOF) value of 0.32 s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> was delivered for PtRhPb MNSs at 10 mV, which

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 4.** Electrocatalytic mechanism. a) The relationships between mass activity and *v*1/2, b) summarized *Ea* values, c) Nyquist plots, and d) electrochemical CO stripping curves of PtRhPb MNSs, PtPb MNSs, PtRhPb NPs, and Pt NPs. e) Electrochemical in situ ATR-IR spectroscopy of PtRhPb MNSs for alkaline EOR electrocatalysis. f,g) Proposed mechanism of PtRhPb MNSs for complete EOR electrocatalysis in an alkaline condition.

reached 2.45 times higher than that (0.13 s<sup>−</sup>1) of Pt NPs. Moreover, PtRhPb MNSs were electrochemically stable for cathode HER electrocatalysis. After being performed for 30 000 s, ≈50% of activity was retained, which was much better than that (only 25%) of Pt NPs (Figure [5c\)](#page-7-0). These results clearly highlighted the high potential of PtRhPb MNSs as a bifunctional electrocatalyst in cathode HER electrocatalysis.

The two-electrode system that coupled anode EOR and cathode HER ((+)EOR || HER(−)) was finally studied with PtRhPb MNSs as an electrocatalyst. In comparison to commercial Pt NPs, PtRhPb MNSs hold remarkably lower onset potentials in (+)EOR || HER(−) coupling system, indicating high performance in twoelectrode system (Figure [5d\)](#page-7-0). Specifically, PtRhPb MNSs required only 1.0 and 1.4 V at the current densities of 10 and 20 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which were 1.3 and 1.4 V lower than commercial Pt NPs in (+)EOR || HER(−) system. The product selectivity of EOR electrocatalysis was further summarized in the two-electrode coupling system. Interestingly, PtRhPb MNSs achieved higher C1 product selectivity with remarkable FEC1 value of 82% at the voltage of 0.70 V in the two-electrode system, which was even higher than that in the half reaction (Figure [5e\)](#page-7-0). Meanwhile, the chronopotentiometry tests confirmed high electrocatalytic stability of PtRhPb MNSs in the two-electrode system for complete EOR electrocatalysis (Figure [5f\)](#page-7-0).

## **3. Conclusion**

In conclusion, we developed a surfactant-free synthetic strategy for preparing anisotropic PtRhPb MNSs with quasi-singlecrystalline mesoporous structure and surface-clean metal site and further demonstrated its application as the high-efficiency electrocatalyst for complete EOR electrocatalysis. A series of

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 5.** Two-electrode coupling system. a) LSV curves, b) summarized TOF values and overpotentials, and c) chronopotentiometry curves of PtRhPb MNSs and Pt NPs collected in N2-saturated 1.0 M KOH. d) LSV curves of PtRhPb MNSs and Pt NPs in (+)EOR || HER(-) coupling system. Inset in (d) is the corresponding schematic diagram. e) FEC1 values of PtRhPb MNSs collected in different voltages. f) Chronopotentiometry curves of PtRhPb MNSs and Pt NPs.

experiments confirmed that the synthesis relied on the selective etching of active Pb and/or Rh atoms in Pt0.75Rh0.25Pb1 intermetallic NSs without any mesopore-forming surfactants. This strategy also allowed the extended synthesis of surfaceclean mesoporous metals with different compositions (PtPb and PtCuPb) and nanostructures (NPs and NOs). The PtRhPb MNSs not only structurally accelerated electrochemical kinetics and stabilized OHads intermediate, but also compositionally separated chemisorption of two carbons of ethanol and OHads and decreased the cleavage energy of C─C bond. As-resulted PtRhPb MNSs delivered superior electrocatalytic activity and stability as well as C1 selectivity in complete EOR electrocatalysis for producing higher electrical energy. Meanwhile, this electrocatalyst was also highly active and stable in the two-electrode (+)EOR || HER(−) coupling system. This work is thus expected to design functional mesoporous metal electrocatalysts with precisely controlled compositions and nanostructures for various electrocatalytic reactions with higher energy efficiency.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# **Acknowledgements**

The authors kindly acknowledge the financial support from the National Key Research and Development Program of China (2023YFC3905002), the Sichuan Science and Technology Program (2023ZYD0039), and the China National Postdoctoral Program for Innovative Talents (BX20230221). The authors would like to thank Dr. Feng Yang (the Comprehensive Training Platform of the Specialized Laboratory, College of Chemistry, Sichuan University) for her assistance with TEM imaging and Dr. Yanping Huang (the Center of Engineering Experimental Teaching, School of Chemical Engineering, Sichuan University) for her help of SEM imaging.

## **Conflict of Interest**

We have filed a patent on the invention.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

## **Keywords**

2D metals, C1 selectivity, electrocatalysis, ethanol oxidation, mesoporous materials

> Received: June 4, 2024 Revised: June 24, 2024 Published online: July 4, 2024

15214095, 2024, 35, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202407940 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [08/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<sup>[1]</sup> a) K. Jiao, J. Xuan, Q. Du, Z. Bao, B. Xie, B. Wang, Y. Zhao, L. Fan, H. Wang, Z. Hou, *Nature* **2021**, *595*, 361; b) S. Zaman, L. Huang, A. I. Douka, H. Yang, B. You, B. Y. Xia, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 17832.

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.advmat.de](http://www.advmat.de)**

15214095, 2024, 35, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202407940 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [08/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [2] a) C. Liu, Y. Shen, J. Zhang, G. Li, X. Zheng, X. Han, L. Xu, S. Zhu, Y. Chen, Y. Deng, W. Hu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2103505; b) W. Chen, S. Luo, M. Sun, X. Wu, Y. Zhou, Y. Liao, M. Tang, X. Fan, B. Huang, Z. Quan, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2206276; c) C. Liang, R. Zhao, T. Chen, Y. Luo, J. Hu, P. Qi, W. Ding, *Adv. Sci.* **2024**, *11*, 2308958; d) L. Chen, L. Lu, H. Zhu, Y. Chen, Y. Huang, Y. Li, L. Wang, *Nat. Commun.* **2017**, *8*, 14136.
- [3] a) B. Sun, W. Zhong, X. Ai, C. Zhang, F.-M. Li, Y. Chen, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2024**, *17*, 2219; b) S. Bai, Y. Xu, K. Cao, X. Huang, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2005767; c) W. Huang, X. Kang, C. Xu, J. Zhou, J. Deng, Y. Li, S. Cheng, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1706962.
- [4] M. Zhou, J. Liu, C. Ling, Y. Ge, B. Chen, C. Tan, Z. Fan, J. Huang, J. Chen, Z. Liu, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2106115.
- [5] a) F. Lv, W. Zhang, M. Sun, F. Lin, T. Wu, P. Zhou, W. Yang, P. Gao, B. Huang, S. Guo, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2021**, *11*, 2100187; b) W. Yan, G. Li, S. Cui, G.-S. Park, R. Oh, W. Chen, X. Cheng, J.-M. Zhang, W. Li, L.-F. Ji, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 17220; c) G. Yang, L. Farsi, Y. Mei, X. Xu, A. Li, N. A. Deskins, X. Teng, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 9444.
- [6] H. Lv, L. Sun, Y. Wang, S. Liu, B. Liu, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2203612.
- [7] a) Y. Zhang, X. Liu, T. Liu, X. Ma, Y. Feng, B. Xu, W. Cai, Y. Li, D. Su, Q. Shao, X. Huang, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2202333; b) Y. Qin, H. Huang, W. Yu, H. Zhang, Z. Li, Z. Wang, J. Lai, L. Wang, S. Feng, *Adv. Sci.* **2022**, *9*, 2103722; c) W. Wang, X. Shi, T. He, Z. Zhang, X. Yang, Y.-J. Guo, B. Chong, W.-M. Zhang, M. Jin, *Nano Lett.* **2022**, *22*, 7028; d) X. Fu, C. Wan, Y. Huang, X. Duan, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2106401; e) K.-H. Kim, G. M. Hobold, K. J. Steinberg, B. M. Gallant, *ACS Nano* **2023**, *17*, 14176; f) Y. Zhu, L. Bu, Q. Shao, X. Huang, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 6607.
- [8] a) S. Mitchell, R. Qin, N. Zheng, J. Pérez-Ramírez, *Nat. Nanotechnol.* **2021**, *16*, 129; b) P. Prabhu, J.-M. Lee, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2021**, *50*, 6700; c) Y. Shi, Z. Lyu, M. Zhao, R. Chen, Q. N. Nguyen, Y. Xia, *Chem. Rev.* **2021**, *121*, 649; d) L. Sun, H. Lv, J. Feng, O. Guselnikova, Y. Wang, Y. Yamauchi, B. Liu, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2201954; e) L. Li, P. Wang, Q. Shao, X. Huang, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2020**, *49*, 3072.
- [9] a) C. Sanchez, C. Boissiere, S. Cassaignon, C. Chaneac, O. Durupthy, M. Faustini, D. Grosso, C. Laberty-Robert, L. Nicole, D. Portehault, F. Ribot, L. Rozes, C. Sassoye, *Chem. Mater.* **2014**, *26*, 221; b) Y. Yoon, A. S. Hall, Y. Surendranath, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 15282; c) F. Naseem, P. Lu, J. Zeng, Z. Lu, Y. H. Ng, H. Zhao, Y. Du, Z. Yin, *ACS Nano* **2020**, *14*, 7734; d) A. S. Hall, Y. Yoon, A. Wuttig, Y. Surendranath, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 14834; e) J. Dai, H. Zhang, *Small* **2021**,

- *17*, 2005334; f) H. Chen, X. Liang, Y. Liu, X. Ai, T. Asefa, X. Zou, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2002435.
- [10] a) X. Min, H. Lv, Y. Yamauchi, B. Liu, *CCS Chem.* **2022**, *4*, 1829; b) A. S. Hall, Y. Yoon, A. Wuttig, Y. Surendranath, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 14834; c) P.-P. Yang, X.-L. Zhang, F.-Y. Gao, Y.-R. Zheng, Z.-Z. Niu, X. Yu, R. Liu, Z.-Z. Wu, S. Qin, L.-P. Chi, Y. Duan, T. Ma, X.-S. Zheng, J.-F. Zhu, H.-J. Wang, M.-R. Gao, S.-H. Yu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 6400; d) H. Lv, H. Qin, M. Sun, F. Jia, B. Huang, B. Liu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202114539.
- [11] a) L. Sun, B. Liu, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2207305; b) L. Sun, H. Lv, J. Xiao, B. Liu, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2402767.
- [12] a) C. Zhu, D. Du, A. Eychmüller, Y. Lin, *Chem. Rev.* **2015**, *115*, 8896; b) B. Jiang, C. Li, J. Tang, T. Takei, J. H. Kim, Y. Ide, J. Henzie, S. Tominaka, Y. Yamauchi, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 10037; c) V. Malgras, H. Ataee-Esfahani, H. Wang, B. Jiang, C. Li, K. C. W. Wu, J. H. Kim, Y. Yamauchi, *Adv. Mater.* **2016**, *28*, 993; d) H. Lv, L. Sun, L. Zou, D. Xu, H. Yao, B. Liu, *Chem. Sci.* **2019**, *10*, 1986; e) Y. Zhou, R. Zhou, X. Zhu, N. Han, B. Song, T. Liu, G. Hu, Y. Li, J. Lu, Y. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2000992; f) Y. Feng, C.-Q. Cheng, C.-Q. Zou, X.-L. Zheng, J. Mao, H. Liu, Z. Li, C.-K. Dong, X.-W. Du, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 19297.
- [13] a) W. Ao, H. Ren, C. Cheng, Z. Fan, P. Yin, Q. Qin, Q. Zhang, L. Dai, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202305158; b) B. Jiang, Y. Guo, J. Kim, A. E. Whitten, K. Wood, K. Kani, A. E. Rowan, J. Henzie, Y. Yamauchi, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 12434; c) S. Wang, Q. Mao, H. Ren, W. Wang, Z. Wang, Y. Xu, X. Li, L. Wang, H. Wang, *ACS Nano* **2022**, *16*, 2978; d) Z. Ma, Z. Yang, W. Lai, Q. Wang, Y. Qiao, H. Tao, C. Lian, M. Liu, C. Ma, A. Pan, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 7596.
- [14] a) L. Bu, N. Zhang, S. Guo, X. Zhang, J. Li, J. Yao, T. Wu, G. Lu, J.-Y. Ma, D. Su, *Science* **2016**, *354*, 1410; b) Y. Liu, M. Wu, S. Sheng, C. Zhi, Y. Wang, X. Li, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2023**, *48*, 13470.
- [15] G.-R. Xu, Z. Dong, Y. Zhao, W. Zhang, Q. Sun, D. Ju, L. Wang, *Small* **2024**, *20*, 2306341.
- [16] H. Lv, L. Sun, D. Xu, B. Liu, *Sci. Bull.* **2020**, *65*, 1823.
- [17] W. Peng, J. Zhou, Y.-R. Lu, M. Peng, D. Yuan, T.-S. Chan, Y. Tan, *Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A.* **2023**, *120*, 2222096120.
- [18] L. He, M. Li, L. Qiu, S. Geng, Y. Liu, F. Tian, M. Luo, H. Liu, Y. Yu, W. Yang, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 2290.
- [19] a) G. Gao, G. Zhu, X. Chen, Z. Sun, A. Cabot, *ACS Nano* **2023**, *17*, 20804; b) Y. Lei, Y. Wang, Y. Liu, C. Song, Q. Li, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 20794; c) F. Guo, T. J. Macdonald, A. J. Sobrido, L. Liu, J. Feng, G. He, *Adv. Sci.* **2023**, *10*, 2301098; d) Y. Wang, L. Sun, H. Lv, C. Zheng, B. Liu, *CCS Chem.* **2023**, *5*, 1896.