---
source: Fang 等 - 2018 - Morphology Engineering of Au(PdAg alloy) Nanostructures for Enhanced Electrocatalytic Ethanol Oxida.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 24.059s
generated: 2026-01-09T04:42:19.360031Z
---

**Hybrid Materials**

# **Morphology Engineering of Au/(PdAg alloy) Nanostructures for Enhanced Electrocatalytic Ethanol Oxidation**

*Caihong Fang,\* Guili Zhao, Zijun Zhang, Jiapeng Zheng, Qian Ding, Xiaoxiao Xu, Lei Shao,\* and Baoyou Geng\**

**Noble metal nanostructures are promising electrocatalysts with their performance determined by their size, shape, and architecture. This study reports the facile preparation of Au/(PdAg alloy) electrocatalysts with diverse architectures, including nanodumbbells, yolk/shell nanoframes, and yolk/shell nanoboxes, from Au nanorod core/Ag shell bimetallic nanostructures. The fine tuning of the nanostructure architecture is realized by combining galvanic replacement reaction, etching/growth, Ostwald ripening, and coreduction processes. The adding sequence of surfactants and Pd precursors, and the Ag shell thicknesses of the starting core/shell nanocrystals, determine the growth routines and therefore the architectures of the obtained Au/(PdAg alloy) nanostructures. Electrocatalytic performances of all Au/(PdAg alloy) nanostructures toward ethanol oxidation reaction (EOR) in alkaline are examined. Compared with the commercial Pd/C electrocatalyst, the nanodumbbells (Au19Pd19Ag62) display 6.3 times higher specific activity and 4.25 times higher mass activity. The nanoframes (Au14Pd14Ag72) are superior as well, with their specific and mass activities 4.4 and 5.5 times higher than those of the Pd/C electrocatalyst, respectively. The nanoboxes also show slight improvement in electrocatalysis. Moreover, the nanodumbbells exhibit greatly improved stability toward EOR in comparison to the Pd/C electrocatalyst. These results can enrich the manufacturing techniques of noble metal nanostructure catalysts and promote their development for fuel cell applications.**

Prof. C. H. Fang, G. L. Zhao, Z. J. Zhang, Q. Ding, X. X. Xu, Prof. B. Y. Geng College of Chemistry and Materials Science The Key Laboratory of Functional Molecular Solids Ministry of Education Anhui Laboratory of Molecular-Based Materials Center for Nano Science and Technology Anhui Normal University Wuhu 241000, P. R. China E-mail: chfang@mail.ahnu.edu.cn; bygeng@mail.ahnu.edu.cn J. P. Zheng, Prof. L. Shao Department of Physics The Chinese University of Hong Kong Shatin, Hong Kong SAR 999077, P. R. China E-mail: shaolei@cuhk.edu.hk

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/ppsc.201800258.

**DOI: 10.1002/ppsc.201800258**

Noble metal nanocrystals have outstanding catalytic performances.[1–3] However, the high cost and rare existence of catalytic noble-metal elements, especially Pd and Pt, prevent the metal nanocrystals from large-scale commercial utilizations. To address these limitations, it is necessary to minimize the noble metal amounts but maintain the material catalytic performance. One strategy is to increase the active catalytic sites of noble metal nanostructures by designing their architectural morphology and structure. The amounts of expensive noble metals can also be reduced by using alloys.[4] Many efforts have been devoted to searching for an optimal nanostructure catalyst by controlling one or a combination of the above means.[5,6] Alloyed metal nanocrystals with varying compositions have been widely explored. The change of material compositions in alloy can modify their electronic and crystallographic structures, leading to an enhancement in the electrocatalytic activities.[7] For example, Stamenkovic et al. have demonstrated that Pt3Ni nanoalloys can exhibit exceptional electrocatalytic activities over their Pt counterpart.[8,9] Such improvement was ascribed to a shift in d-band center

of Pt. After these discoveries, Pd-based nanocrystals have consistently reported to show dramatic enhancements over pure Pd nanocrystals.[10–13] Some transition metals, such as In, Co, and Ni, have been employed as the elements in Pd- and Pt-based alloys.[14,15] As an alternative, Ag has also been introduced to form MAg alloys (M = Pt, Pd).[16,17] Controlling the architecture of the alloy nanocrystals can further improve their catalytic properties.[18,19] Among various architectures, hollow nanostructures are highly promising because of their large specific surface areas. Notable examples include nanoboxes (hollow nanostructures formed by six rectangular walls), nanocages (nanoboxes with holes on their walls), and nanoframes (hollow nanostructures formed by edges). These hollow nanostructures possess dramatically increased sites such as corners and edges that are catalytically active. They therefore exhibit highly improved electrocatalytic activities.[20–22] As a very successful example, Pt3Ni nanoframes have been shown to exhibit a factor of 22 enhancements in specific activity and a factor

**www.advancedsciencenews.com**

**www.particle-journal.com**

of 36 enhancements in mass activity toward oxygen reduction reaction (ORR).[21] Pt nanocages reported by Xia and co-workers also showed distinctive specific activities to ORR. Such nanocages performed much better than the commercial Pt/C in both catalytic activity and durability.[23]

Taken the above considerations into account, noble metal nanostructures with alloy composition and hollow structure are ideal catalysts with high electrocatalytic activities. However, it is still challenging to directly grow such nanoarchitectures with tunable size, shape, and alloy composition. A synthetic routine for the preparation and tuning of these nanostructure catalysts is therefore highly desired.

Here, we report a general method to fabricate Au/(PdAg alloy) nanocrystals from Au core/Ag shell nanorods. By combining galvanic replacement reaction, etching/growth, Ostwald ripening, and coreduction processes, we achieved fine tuning of the nanocrystal morphology and successfully fabricated Au/ (PdAg alloy) nanocrystals with diverse morphologies, including nanodumbbells, yolk/shell nanoframes, and yolk/shell nanoboxes. In all the obtained composite nanocrystals, Au nanorods serve as the supporting core and Pd−Ag bimetallic alloy nanostructures form shells/satellites that are not closely packed. We found that the adding sequence of surfactants and Pd precursors as well as the Ag shell thicknesses of the starting core/ shell nanocrystal seeds determines the growth routines and therefore the architectures of the obtained Au/(PdAg alloy) nanostructures. These hollow nanocrystals provide abundant catalytically active sites and thus show substantially improved electrocatalytic performances toward the ethanol oxidation reaction (EOR) in alkaline. The Au/(PdAg alloy) nanodumbbells (Au19Pd19Ag62) display 6.3 times higher specific activity and 4.25 times higher mass activity than the commercial Pd/C electrocatalyst. The nanoframes (Au14Pd14Ag72) are also superior in electrocatalysis, with their specific and mass activities 4.4 and 5.5 times higher than those of the Pd/C electrocatalyst, respectively. The nanoboxes show slight improvement in electrocatalysis as well. Moreover, the nanodumbbells exhibit the highest stability toward EOR. We believe that our results can enrich the manufacturing techniques of noble metal nanostructure catalysts and promote their development for fuel cell applications.

The Au/(PdAg alloy) nanocrystals presented in this work were all produced from Au core/Ag shell nanorods. We first prepared the Au core/Ag shell nanorods with their shell thickness, *d*Ag, varying from (2.5 ± 0.4) to (17.0 ± 1.5) nm (**Figure 1**a−c), by overgrowing Ag on as-prepared Au nanorods (Figure S1, Supporting Information).[24] Au/(PdAg alloy) nanocrystals with varying architectures were then prepared from the washed Au/Ag core/shell nanorod solution by adding the surfactant hexadecyltrimethylammonium chloride (CTAC), and the Pd source H2PdCl4, with different sequences. The reducing agent, ascorbic acid, was added in the end.

When the surfactant CTAC is added before the Pd source, the Au/Ag nanorods grow into dumbbell-shaped Au/PdAg nanocrystals if the Ag shell of the starting nanorods is very thin. At the Ag shell thickness *d*Ag = (2.0 ± 0.4) nm (Figure 1a), the reduced Pd atoms form alloys with unetched Ag and the resulted PdAg alloy nanoparticles preferentially grow on the two ends of the Au nanorod, forming a nanodumbbell architecture (Figure 1d and Figure S2a, Supporting Information). The nanodumbbell shape is maintained until *d*Ag of the starting Au/Ag nanorod increases to larger than (6.0 ± 0.5) nm (Figure S3a,b, Supporting Information). At *d*Ag = (7.5 ± 0.7) nm (Figure 1b), the obtained Au/(PdAg alloy) nanocrystals exhibit a yolk/shell nanobox shape (Figure 1e and Figure S2b, Supporting Information). Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) imaging reveals that the nanostructure is formed by an Au nanorod core and a Pd/Ag box as the outer wall, with a clear hollow interspace between them. This architecture is maintained as *d*Ag is incrementally turned to (11.0 ± 0.5) nm (Figure S3c−h, Supporting Information). As *d*Ag is increased to (13.5 ± 1.1) nm (Figure 1c), the shape of obtained Au/(PdAg alloy) nanocrystals becomes nanodumbbell again, but with much larger PdAg ends (Figure 1f and Figure S2c, Supporting Information) in comparison to the nanodumbbell structure that was synthesized from Au/Ag nanorods with a thinner shell (Figure 1d). We denote this structure as L-nanodumbbells. The L-nanodumbbell shape is inherited as *d*Ag increases up to (17.0 ± 1.5) nm (Figure S3i,j, Supporting Information). We will discuss the growth mechanism of differently shaped nanostructures later.

The Au/PdAg nanostructures show a very different morphological evolution with *d*Ag if H2PdCl4 is added before the surfactant CTAC (Table S1, Supporting Information). For *d*Ag between (2.5 ± 0.4) and (6.0 ± 0.5) nm, the resulted Au/ PdAg nanocrystals exhibit a trepang-like structure with PdAg nanoparticles formed on the surface of the Au nanorod core (Figure 1g and Figures S2d and S4a, Supporting Information). The dumbbell-shaped Au/PdAg nanocrystals appear as *d*Ag increases to between (7.5 ± 0.7) nm and (9.5 ± 0.8) nm (Figure 1h and Figures S2e and S4b, Supporting Information). More interestingly, yolk/shell nanoframes are achieved at *d*Ag ranging from (11.0 ± 0.8) to (17.0 ± 1.5) nm (Figure 1i and Figures S2f and S4c,d, Supporting Information).

We further examined the composition of the Au/PdAg nanocrystals. We selected the Au/PdAg yolk/shell nanoframes shown in Figure 1i as an example. High-angle annular darkfield scanning TEM (HAADF-STEM) images clearly reveal a rod core and a frame shell with an obvious interspace between them (**Figure 2**a). Energy-dispersive X-ray (EDX) elemental mapping indicates that the core is Au (Figure 2b). Ag and Pd homogenously distribute in the frame and spatially overlap with each other, implying that the frame edges are composed of PdAg alloy (Figure 2c,d). The lattice fringe marked in the high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) image corresponds to the lattice spacing of PdAg {200} facets (Figure 2e). The HRTEM and EDX mapping characterization of other Au/PdAg nanocrystals show similar results (Figure S5, Supporting Information). Pd and Ag are homogeneously distributed and spatially overlapped on the ends, surfaces or the outer walls of the obtained composite nanocrystals with an Au nanorod core, which validates the formation of Au/(PdAg alloy) nanostructures.

The Au/(PdAg alloy) compositions of the bulk samples were also examined by X-ray diffraction (XRD) and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) characterizations. XRD patterns taken on Au/PdAg yolk/shell nanoframes show evidently two sets of diffraction patterns (Figure 2f and Figure S6, Supporting Information). However, it is still difficult to identify the coexistence

**Figure 1.** Growth of Au/(PdAg alloy) nanocrystals from Au core/Ag shell nanorods with different shell thicknesses *d*Ag. We changed the adding sequence of the surfactant CTAC and the Pd precursors. TEM images of Au/Ag nanorods with *d*Ag of a) (2.5 ± 0.4) nm, b) (7.5 ± 0.7) nm, and c) (13.5 ± 1.1) nm, respectively. d−f) TEM images of Au/PdAg nanocrystals grown from the Au/Ag nanorods in (a)−(c) by adding CTAC first. g−i) TEM images of Au/PdAg nanocrystals grown from the Au/Ag nanorods in (a)−(c) by adding H2PdCl4 first.

of Au and PdAg alloy from the XRD pattern because of the very similar diffraction patterns of metallic Au and Ag. XPS spectra were therefore acquired (Figure 2g−i). Two symmetric peaks at 83.8 and 87.5 eV in the XPS spectra are identified as the Au 4f5/2 and Au 4f7/2 signals (Figure 2g) and therefore demonstrate the metallic Au0 state. The characteristic Pd 3d peaks at 334.6 eV (Pd 3d5/2) and 339.8 eV (Pd 3d3/2) are also observed, indicating the dominant existence of metallic Pd0 (Figure 2h). The XPS peaks at 367.5 and 373.5 eV should come from the Ag 3d5/2 and Ag 3d3/2 signals, respectively (Figure 2i). However, both peaks exhibit negative shifts in comparison to those of the metallic Ag0 (368.3 and 374.3 eV). Such shifts are believed to be caused by electron transfer from Pd to Ag. We therefore confirm the coexistence of Au and PdAg alloy compositions in the bulk samples from XRD and XPS characterizations.

We next explored the growth mechanisms of the Au/PdAg nanocrystals with different architectures. The Ag shell of the starting Au/Ag core/shell nanorods distributes unevenly on the Au nanorod surface (**Figure 3**). When the Ag shell is very thin, Ag mainly distributes on the side of the Au nanorod core because Ag prefers to grow at the side of Au nanorods.[25] As the Ag shell becomes thicker, the Ag shell thickness on the Au nanorod sides gradually increases and Ag starts to grow on the Au nanorod ends, forming a cuboidal structure. During the preparation of the Au/(PdAg alloy) nanocrystals, the etching of Ag shell by H2PdCl4 is always accompanied with other processes,[26] including reduction of both Pd and Ag by ascorbic acid, Ostwald ripening of nanoparticles, and surfactantcontrolled overgrowth processes. When the growth solution of Pd is added into the washed Au/Ag nanorod solution, the dominating reactions at the beginning are the galvanic reaction between H2PdCl4 and Ag, and the reduction reaction of H2PdCl4 by ascorbic acid. Based on this assumption, we proposed the following growth mechanisms to explain the different architectures of Au/(PdAg alloy) nanocrystals that we observed in experiments.

For the synthetic routines realized by adding surfactants first, when H2PdCl4 is dropped into the solution, Pd2<sup>+</sup> tends to form complex compounds with CTAC instantly, and therefore the galvanic replacement reaction between Pd2+ and Ag is slowed down, as confirmed by the slow color change of the starting Au/Ag colloid (Figure S7a, Supporting Information). After **www.advancedsciencenews.com**

**www.particle-journal.com**

**Figure 2.** Structure and composition analysis of the Au/PdAg yolk/shell nanoframe nanocrystals. An individual nanoframe was imaged by a) HAADF-STEM, b–d) EDX elemental mapping, and e) HRTEM. The bulk samples of the same nanostructure were further characterized by f) XRD and g–i) XPS spectroscopies.

the addition of the reducing agent ascorbic acid, the reduction reaction of Pd2+ by ascorbic acid dominates. When the Ag shell of the staring Au/Ag nanorod is thin, the high curvatures of the ends in the Au nanorod core is maintained (Figure 3a, routine 1). These sharp ends have lower surfactant packing density than the nanorod sides. Metallic Pd reduced by ascorbic acid tends to grow at these less protected ends, similar to what has been previously reported.[27] Simultaneously, the galvanic replacement reaction between Pd2+ and Ag shell produces Pd<sup>0</sup> and Ag+. The Ag<sup>+</sup> ions migrate and are reduced to Ag0 at the ends of the nanorod. Together with the newly reduced Pd atom, PdAg alloy forms and grows at the ends of the Au nanorod core. A nanodumbbell architecture therefore is obtained as it shown in Figure 1d. For cuboidal Au/Ag nanorods with thicker Ag shells, CTAC distributes almost homogeneously at the nanostructure ends and sides. At a relative high reduction rate, the preferred growth on the edges and vertices is also suppressed. The newly formed Pd and Ag atoms thus deposited onto the cuboid surface evenly (Figure 3a, routine 2). After the Ag shell gradually disappears because of the galvanic replacement reaction, the yolk/shell Au/(PdAg alloy) nanoboxes appear, as shown in Figure 1e. When the shell thickness of the Au/Ag seeds is further increased, an L-nanodumbbell structure can be produced (Figure 3a, routine 3). However, the formation of L-nanodumbbell architecture has a different mechanism from that in routine 1. It is reshaped from the nanobox, which can be visually confirmed by TEM imaging (Figure 3b). We observed intermediated morphologies, in which the wall of the nanobox became thinner and thinner and even broken. The PdAg on the nanobox wall migrates to the nanorod ends, forming bells at the two ends of the nanorod. We also observed an architecture with one shrunk and one swelled bell grown on the ends of Au nanorods (Figure 3b). We believe that this process is driven by the Ostwald ripening effect.

When the Pd precursor is titrated first, the surfactant-controlled growth phenomena disappear. H2PdCl4 reacts with Ag much faster at the absence of the surfactants (Figure S7b, Supporting Information). Pd atoms will be deposited on the

Figure 3. Growth mechanisms of Au/(PdAg alloy) nanocrystals with different architectures. a) Schematic shown the morphological evolutions under different adding sequences of  $H_2PdCl_4$  and CTAC. 1, 2, and 3 located at the left illustrate the synthetic routines when CTAC is added first, while 4, 5, and 6 at the right are the routines when  $H_2PdCl_4$  is added first. b) TEM images of the intermediate structures when the Au/(PdAg) nanodumbbells in routine 3 is grown.

Au/Ag nanorod surface. After the addition of ascorbic acid, it reduces Ag<sup>+</sup> and Pd<sup>2+</sup> to Ag<sup>0</sup> and Pd<sup>0</sup>. The Au/Ag core/ shell nanorods with a very thin shell grow into a trepang-like structure (Figure 3a, routine 4). The galvanic replacement reaction etched all the Ag shell at the beginning. Then both Pd and Ag are coreduced, generating alloy nanoparticles uniformly on the nanorod surface (Figure 1g). As the Ag shell thickness of the starting Au/Ag nanorods increases, the alloy nanoparticles are generated on the box surface. But unlike routine 2, the alloy nanoparticles will further migrate to the ends of the Au nanorod core (Figure 3a, routine 5, and Figure 1h), similar to the behavior in routine 3. The difference between routine 2 and routine 5 may result from the different surface tensions on the Au nanorod surface of PdAg alloy nanoclusters with different atom ratios. When Au/Ag nanorods with thicker Ag shells are employed, the dominant galvanic replacement reaction initiates at the edges and vertices. The resulting Pd atoms are not that close to the Au nanorod surface and will stay at the edges of the cuboid, forming the skeleton for the deposition of Ag and Pd reduced by the reductant. Au/(PdAg alloy) yolk/ shell nanoframes therefore are created (Figure 3a, routine 6, and Figure 1i).

The architectures of obtained Au/(PdAg alloy) nanocrystals provide a large number of catalytically active sites and the alloyed material provides additional benefits for catalytic reactions. We evaluated some of the Au/(PdAg alloy) nanocrystals as electrocatalysts for the oxidation of ethanol in an alkaline and benchmarked them against the commercial Pd/C catalysts. The compositions of the nanodumbbells prepared in routine 5, the yolk/shell nanoframes in routine 6, and the yolk/shell nanoboxes in routine 2 were characterized to be Au $_{19}$ Pd $_{19}$ Ag $_{62}$ ,

Au<sub>14</sub>Pd<sub>14</sub>Ag<sub>72</sub>, and Au<sub>13</sub>Pd<sub>12</sub>Ag<sub>75</sub> by inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectroscopy (ICP-AES) measurements, respectively. Their electrochemical surface area (ECSA) was determined to be 23.1 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup> (Au<sub>19</sub>Pd<sub>19</sub>Ag<sub>62</sub>), 42.6 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup> (Au<sub>14</sub>Pd<sub>14</sub>Ag<sub>72</sub>), and 43.3 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup> (Au<sub>13</sub>Pd<sub>12</sub>Ag<sub>75</sub>) by quantifying their electric charges related to that required for the reduction of PdO. [28–30] The ESCAs were calculated according to

$$ECSA = \frac{Q}{m \times c \times v} \tag{1}$$

where Q is the charge for PdO reduction and can be obtained from the measured cyclic voltammogram (CV) curves, m is the mass of Pd in the catalysts,  $c = 420 \mu C \text{ cm}^{-2}$  is the charge required to reduce PdO, and  $\nu$  is the scan rate during electrocatalytic measurements. The ECSA of commercial Pd/C was also calculated to be 34.6 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup> (Figure S8a, Supporting Information). The ECSAs of the Au/PdAg nanodumbbell, yolk/shell nanoframe, and yolk/shell nanobox nanostructures are therefore found to be 0.67, 1.23, and 1.25 times that of the Pd/C catalyst, respectively. CV curves recorded at the presence of different nanostructure catalysts all displayed characteristic current peak of the oxidation of ethanol during the forward scan (Figure 4a and Figure S8b, Supporting Information). The peak comes from the freshly chemisorbed and then oxidized ethanol. The oxidation peak in the backward scan is primarily resulted from further oxidization of carbonaceous species that are produced during the oxidation of ethanol in the forward scan. The accumulation of such carbonaceous species will lead to "catalyst poisoning." [31] In addition, a reduction peak at around +0.07 V is assigned to the reduction of AgOH or Ag<sub>2</sub>O produced on the catalysts.<sup>[32]</sup>

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.particle-journal.com**

**Figure 4.** Evaluation of the Au/(PdAg alloy) nanocrystals as electrocatalysts for the oxidation of ethanol in an alkaline. a) Cyclic voltammograms curves of the Au/PdAg nanodumbbell, yolk/shell nanoframe, yolk/shell nanobox, and commercial Pd/C electrocatalysts. The measurements were carried out in N2-saturated solution of potassium hydroxide (KOH, 0.3 m) and ethanol (0.5 m) at a scanning rate of 50 mV s−<sup>1</sup> in the range of (−0.6 V, 0.4 V). b) Specific and mass activities toward EOR of the three Au/PdAg nanostructure catalysts and the commercial Pd/C catalyst. c) Chronoamperometric curves for the three Au/PdAg nanostructure catalysts and the commercial Pd/C catalyst in N2-saturated KOH (0.3 m) solution at a scanning rate of 50 mV s−<sup>1</sup> .

The oxidization peak in the forward scan can be used to evaluate the catalytic performances of different catalysts. It was observed to shift from −0.28 to −0.31, −0.31, and −0.32 V when the commercial Pd/C catalyst was replaced by the Au/ PdAg nanodumbbell, yolk/shell nanoframe, and yolk/shell nanobox nanocrystals, respectively (Figure 4a). These peak shifts can be ascribed to the alloyed effect. Furthermore, the oxidation peak intensities are determined to be 3.68 and 2.58 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2 for the Au/PdAg nanodumbbells and yolk/ shell nanoframes (Figure S8b, Supporting Information), which are 6.3 and 4.4 times higher than that of the commercial Pd/C (0.58 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2), indicating the significant enhancements in their specific activities toward EOR. The nanobox catalyst was measured to have an oxidation peak intensity of 0.59 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, similar to that of the commercial Pd/C catalyst. The mass activities toward EOR are therefore determined on the basis of Pd loading mass. The mass activities of the three nanostructure catalysts are calculated to be 0.85, 1.1, and 0.26 mA mg−<sup>1</sup> Pd, which are around 4.25 times, 5.5 times, and 1.3 times higher than that of commercial Pd/C catalyst (0.2 mA mg−<sup>1</sup> Pd). The specific activities and mass activities of different Au/(PdAg alloy) nanocrystal catalysts in comparison to those of the commercial Pd/C catalyst are summarized in Figure 4b. Both the Au/PdAg nanodumbbells and yolk/shell nanoframes exhibit remarkably enhanced electrocatalytic performance than the commercial Pd/C catalyst.

We also examined the stability of Au/(PdAg alloy) catalysts by chronoamperometric (CA) measurements at a potential of −0.3 V for 3000 s (Figure 4c). The Au/(PdAg alloy) nanodumbbells showed the highest current density at the beginning and the end of the CA measurement. Its current density after the 3000 s measurement was 0.683 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> , which is 14.5 times, 51.7 times, and 32.4 times higher than that of the yolk/shell nanoframes (0.047 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> ), the yolk/shell nanoboxes (0.0132 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> ), and the commercial Pd/C catalysts (0.0211 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> ), respectively. After the 3000 s CA measurement, the current density was decreased by (39%), (95%), and (96%) for the Au/(PdAg alloy) nanodumbbells, yolk/shell nanoframes, and yolk/shell nanoboxes, respectively. In comparison, the current density of the commercial Pd/C was decreased by 95%. The Au/(PdAg alloy) nanodumbbell catalyst exhibits the best durability. We additionally examined the morphology of

**www.particle-journal.com**

the nanodumbbells after the 3000 s CA measurements by TEM imaging (Figure S8c,d, Supporting Information) and hardly found any shape/size changes. It is now safe to conclude that the Au/(PdAg alloy) nanodumbbell catalyst with a composition of Au19Pd19Ag62 is superior in both electrocatalytic activity and durability toward EOR. It exhibits significant improvements than the commercial Pd/C catalyst.

The improved electrocatalytic activity and stability of the Au/(PdAg alloy) nanocrystals toward EOR in alkaline can be ascribed to the following reasons. First, the Au/(PdAg alloy) nanocrystals supply abundant step atoms, which offer increased active sites and therefore lead to the enhanced electrocatalytic activity. Second, the alloy of Ag and Pd can help to improve the nanostructure catalytic performance. When alloyed with Ag, Pd will have a shifted-up d-band center because of the tensile strain caused by the lattice constant difference.[33,34] As a result, the adsorption of OH<sup>−</sup> ions onto the metal surface will be facilitated according to the d-band theory.[34] The resulted stronger adsorption of OH− on the metal surface benefits the removal of carbonaceous intermediates that could poison the catalysts.[35] However, at high Ag molar ratio, the adsorption of OH− on the alloy metal surface also suppresses the dissociative adsorption of ethanol and therefore decreases the structure catalytic activity.[36–38] In our experiments, the atom ratios between Ag and Pd in the nanodumbbells, the yolk/shell nanoframes, and the yolk/shell nanoboxes are determined to be 3.26, 5.14, and 5.8, respectively. The Au/(PdAg alloy) yolk/shell nanoboxes with the highest Ag content therefore show the lowest specific and mass activities (Figure 4b). Third, the Au nanorod core can help in the electrocatalytic processes by removing the carbon monoxide (CO) that forms owing to the incomplete oxidation of ethanol and poisons the catalysts. The CO-poisoning results in a low stability of the PdAg or Pd electrocatalysts.[37] It has been reported that CO can be largely adsorbed and oxidized to be CO2 by reacting with the active oxygen species on the surface of Au nanocrystals.[39] In our experiments, the Au nanorod core was partially exposed to the chemical environment during the electrocatalytic reactions. CO intermediate species would therefore have the opportunity to be oxidized to CO2 on the surface of the Au nanorod core and meliorate the "catalyst poisoning" effect. The Au/(PdAg alloy) nanodumbbells have the largest exposed area of Au surface to the surrounding environment and therefore display the highest durability during the CA experiments.

In summary, we have demonstrated a synthetic strategy for preparing Au/(PdAg alloy) nanostructure electrocatalysts with novel morphologies. Au/(PdAg alloy) nanodumbbells, yolk/ shell nanoframes, and yolk/shell nanoboxes were successfully obtained by controlling the growth of Au/Ag core/shell nanorods in Pd growth solutions. We found that the Au/(PdAg alloy) nanocrystals with varying architectures can be obtained through different growth routines. The growth routines are determined by the adding sequence of the surfactants and the Pd precursors in the growth solution as well as the thickness of the Ag shell in the starting Au/Ag nanorod seeds. We further examined the electrocatalytic performances of the prepared Au/(PdAg alloy) nanostructure catalysts toward EOR. Compared with the commercial Pd/C catalyst, the Au/(PdAg alloy) nanodumbbells (Au19Pd19Ag62) and yolk/shell nanoframes (Au14Pd14Ag72) showed remarkably improved specific and mass activities owing to their more catalytic sites and the synergistic effect between metallic Pd and Ag. More importantly, the Au/(PdAg alloy) nanodumbbells exhibited significantly better stability toward EOR than the commercial Pd/C catalyst. The improved stability is ascribed to the existence of Ag with proper content in alloy composition and the exposed Au core. It is therefore conclusive that the performance of electrocatalytic ethanol oxidation of by using nanostructure catalysts can be improved by designing the catalyst structure to have a morphology with enough active sites, proper alloy composition, and an exposed surface which can remove the intermediate product CO. We believe our synthetic methodology stated here can result in sophisticated nanostructures fulfilling these criterions. Furthermore, our method is versatile and can be extend to prepare other nanostructure catalysts, such as Pt-based nanostructures, that can have much better electrocatalytic performances.

#### **Experimental Section**

*Preparation of Au/(PdAg alloy)Nanostructures*: Au core/Ag shell nanorods were prepared using a reported method[24] (see details in the Supporting Information). Au/(PdAg alloy) nanostructures were grown by dispersing Au/Ag core/shell nanorods in deionized water (1 mL), in which aqueous CTAC (60 µL, 0.08 m) and H2PdCl4 (40 µL, 0.01 m) solutions were titrated in different sequences. After 5 min stirring, ascorbic acid (100 µL, 0.02 m) was added into the mixture. The resultant solution was kept undisturbed for 30 min. After centrifugation, the samples were redispersed in deionized water. To remove silver halide that may residually exist in Au/(PdAg alloy) nanostructures, excess NH3·H2O (30 wt%, 200 µL) was dropped into the above nanostructure colloid.

*Electrochemical Measurements*: After polished by Al2O3 pastes with a size of 1 and 0.05 µm, the glassy carbon electrodes (diameter 3 mm, Pine Instrument) were cleaned under ultrasonication for over 20 min. To fabricate the working electrode, the as-prepared Au/(PdAg alloy) electrocatalysts (200 µL) or commercial Pd/C (10% on active carbon powder, 11.2 mg) were first dispersed in deionized water (1 mL). Nafion (0.2 wt%, 10 µL) was then added into the solution and the mixture was treated with ultrasonication for about 10 min. The above well-dispersed suspension (16 µL) was casted onto the surface of the glassy carbon disk electrode and dried naturally at room temperature (≈25 °C). After that, 10 µL Nafion (0.2 wt%) was casted. The prepared working electrodes were dried naturally in air at room temperature for further use.

Electrochemical measurements were performed using a three-electrode system, in which an Ag/AgCl electrode and a Pt mesh severed as the reference and counter electrodes, respectively. The potential values that were measured in this work are all referenced to the Ag/AgCl saturated electrode. For each measurement, the mixture sample was purged with N2 gas for at least 30 min to achieve N2 saturation. Cyclic voltammograms were recorded in a mixture of KOH (0.3 m) and ethanol (0.5 m). The chronoamperometry curves were measured at a potential of −0.3 V.

#### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

#### **Acknowledgements**

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (21501005 and 21471006), the Anhui Provincial National Science

**www.advancedsciencenews.com**

**www.particle-journal.com**

Foundation (1608085QB38), the Programs for Science and Technology Development of Anhui Province (1501021019), the Recruitment Program for Leading Talent Team of Anhui Province, the Program for Innovative Research Team of Anhui Education Committee, the Research Foundation for Science and Technology Leaders and Candidates of Anhui Province, and The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) Direct Grant (Ref. No. 2017–18, 4053307).

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

### **Keywords**

Au/(PdAg alloy), electrocatalytic ethanol oxidation, morphology engineering, nanostructures

> Received: June 8, 2018 Revised: July 12, 2018 Published online:

- [1] H. Zhang, M. S. Jin, Y. J. Xiong, B. Lim, Y. N. Xia, *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2013**, *46*, 1783.
- [2] B. S¸en, E. H. Akdere, A. S¸avk, E. Gültekin, Ö. Parali, H. Göksu, F. S¸en, *Appl. Catal., B* **2018**, *225*, 846.
- [3] Z. X. Fan, H. Zhang, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2016**, *45*, 63.
- [4] J. Y. Chen, B. Lim, E. P. Lee, Y. N. Xia, *Nano Today* **2009**, *4*, 81.
- [5] D. S. Wang, Y. D. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2011**, *23*, 1044.
- [6] K. D. Gilroy, A. Ruditskiy, H.-C. Peng, D. Qin, Y. N. Xia, *Chem. Rev.* **2016**, *116*, 10414.
- [7] H. L. Zhang, Z. N. Yu, S. W. Li, Q. L. Zhang, J. Jin, J. T. Ma, *J. Catal.* **2017**, *353*, 256.
- [8] V. R. Stamenkovic, B. Fowler, B. S. Mun, G. F. Wang, P. N. Ross, C. A. Lucas, N. M. Marković, *Science* **2007**, *315*, 493.
- [9] V. R. Stamenkovic, B. S. Mun, M. Arenz, K. J. J. Mayrhofer, C. A. Lucas, G. F. Wang, P. N. Ross, N. M. Markovic, *Nat. Mater.* **2007**, *6*, 241.
- [10] L. Kuai, X. Yu, S. Z. Wang, Y. Sang, B. Y. Geng, *Langmuir* **2012**, *28*, 7168.
- [11] R. Chang, L. J. Zheng, C. W. Wang, D. C. Yang, G. X. Zhang, S. H. Sun, *Appl. Catal., B* **2017**, *211*, 205.
- [12] Y. Chen, Z. X. Fan, Z. M. Luo, X. Z. Liu, X. Z. Liu, Z. Lai, B. Li, Y. Zong, L. Gu, H. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *29*, 1701331.

- [13] J. S. Guo, R. R. Chen, F.-C. Zhu, S.-G. Sun, H. M. Villullas, *Appl. Catal., B* **2018**, *224*, 2602.
- [14] D. S. Wang, Q. Peng, Y. D. Li, *Nano Res.* **2010**, *3*, 574.
- [15] G.-R. Zhang, S. Wöllner, *Appl. Catal., B* **2018**, *222*, 26.
- [16] H. P. Rong, S. F. Cai, Z. Q. Niu, Y. D. Li, *ACS Catal.* **2013**, *3*, 1560.
- [17] C. H. Fang, J. Zhao, G. L. Zhao, L. Kuai, B. Y. Geng, *Nanoscale* **2016**, *8*, 14971.
- [18] H. L. Liu, F. Nosheen, X. Wang, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2015**, *44*, 3056.
- [19] H.-Y. Park, J. H. Park, P. Kim, S. J. Yoo, *Appl. Catal., B* **2018**, *225*, 84.
- [20] X. Wang, A. Ruditskiy, Y. N. Xia, *Nat. Sci. Rev.* **2016**, *3*, 520.
- [21] C. Chen, Y. J. Kang, Z. Y. Huo, Z. W. Zhu, W. Y. Huang, H. L. Xin, J. D. Snyder, D. G. Li, J. A. Herron, M. Mavrikakis, M. F. Chi, K. L. More, Y. D. Li, N. M. Markovic, G. A. Somorjai, P. D. Yang, V. R. Stamenkovic, *Science* **2014**, *343*, 1339.
- [22] Y. E. Wu, D. S. Wang, G. Zhou, R. Yu, C. Chen, Y. D. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2014**, *136*, 11594.
- [23] L. Zhang, L. T. Roling, X. Wang, M. Vara, M. F. Chi, J. Y. Liu, S. Choi, J. Park, J. A. Herron, Z. X. Xie, M. Mavrikakis, Y. N. Xia, *Science* **2015**, *349*, 412.
- [24] Q. Li, R. B. Jiang, T. Ming, C. H. Fang, J. F. Wang, *Nanoscale* **2012**, *4*, 7070.
- [25] R. B. Jiang, H. J. Chen, L. Shao, Q. Li, J. F. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2012**, *24*, OP200.
- [26] X. H. Xia, Y. Wang, A. Ruditskiy, Y. N. Xia, *Adv. Mater.* **2013**, *25*, 6313.
- [27] F. Wang, C. H. Li, H. J. Chen, R. B. Jiang, L.-D Sun, Q. Li, J. F. Wang, J. C. Yu, C. H. Yan, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 5588.
- [28] S. F. Fu, C. Z. Zhu, D. Du, Y. H. Lin, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2015**, *7*, 138428.
- [29] Y. Qiu, L. Xin, D. J. Chadderdon, J. Qi, C. H. Liang, W. Z. Li, *Green Chem.* **2014**, *16*, 1305.
- [30] Q. L. Zhang, J. X. Feng, A. J. Wang, J. Wei, J. J. Feng, *RSC Adv.* **2014**, *4*, 52640.
- [31] Z. X. Liang, T. S. Zhao, J. B. Xu, L. D. Zhu, *Electrochim. Acta* **2009**, *54*, 2203.
- [32] K. Kakaei, M. Dorraji, *Electrochim. Acta* **2014**,*143*, 207.
- [33] S. T. Nguyen, H. M. Law, H. T. Nguyen, N. Kristian, S. Y. Wang, S. H. Chan, X. Wang, *Appl. Catal., B* **2009**, *91*, 507.
- [34] B. Hammer, J. K. Norskov, *Adv. Catal.* **2000**, *45*, 71.
- [35] W. J. Huang, X. L. Kang, C. Xu, J. H. Zhou, J. Deng, Y. G. Li, S. Cheng, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1706962.
- [36] C. Bianchini, P. K. Shen, *Chem. Rev.* **2009**, *109*, 4183.
- [37] Z. Peng, H. You, H. Yang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2010**, *20*, 3734.
- [38] D. Widmann, J. Behm, *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2014**, *47*, 740.
- [39] L. Y. Chen, N. Chen, Y. Hou, Z. C. Wang, S. H. Lv, T. Fujita, J. H. Jiang, A. Hirata, M. W. Chen, *ACS Catal.* **2013**, *3*, 1220.