---
source: Han 等 - 2023 - Highly Utilized Active Sites on Pt@CuC for Ethanol Electrocatalytic Oxidation in Alkali Metal Hydro.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 7.192s
generated: 2026-01-09T04:45:57.647571Z
---

**www.afm-journal.de**

# **Highly Utilized Active Sites on Pt@Cu/C for Ethanol Electrocatalytic Oxidation in Alkali Metal Hydroxide Solutions**

*Chenjie Han, Yeqing Lyu, Shaona Wang, Biao Liu, Yi Zhang, Jan J. Weigand, Hao Du,\* and Jun Lu\**

**Using ethanol electrocatalytic oxidation reaction (EOR) with a lower reaction potential to replace oxygen evolution reaction (OER) and integrating hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) have a promising development prospect for more energy-saving electrolytic hydrogen production. However, the main challenges of EOR are insufficient catalytic activity, high overpotential, and slow kinetics. Active sites on the electrocatalysts surface are occupied by alkali metal ion hydrate clusters by noncovalent interactions, which is considered to be one of the major causes of these challenges. To reduce the effect of the noncovalent interactions on the catalytic activity of the electrocatalyst, copper is chosen and doped in the form of a single atom in the electrocatalyst (Pt@Cu/C) to increase the electrocatalyst conductivity and make the anode contain more positive charge in this study. Then, alkali metal ion hydrate clusters are difficult to adsorb at the active site of Pt@Cu/C. The EOR electrocatalytic activity of Pt@Cu/C is up to 8184 mA mgPt<sup>−</sup>1, which is ≈4.8 times as high as that of Pt/C. The two-electrode hydrogen production device using Pt@Cu/C as anode for coupled EOR&HER requires a smaller voltage of 0.60 V to reach 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> compared with that of Pt/C (0.76 V).**

C. Han, Y. Lyu, S. Wang, B. Liu, Y. Zhang, H. Du

National Engineering Research Center of green recycling for strategic metal resources

Institute of Process Engineering

Chinese Academy of Sciences

Beijing 100190, China E-mail: hdu@ipe.ac.cn

C. Han, Y. Lyu, S. Wang, B. Liu, Y. Zhang School of Chemical Engineering University of Chinese Academy of Sciences

Beijing 100049, China

J. J. Weigand

Faculty of Chemistry and Food Chemistry Technische Universität Dresden

01062 Dresden, Germany

J. Lu

College of Chemical and Biological Engineering

Zhejiang University Hangzhou 310027, China E-mail: junzoelu@zju.edu.cn

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202305436

**DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202305436**

# **1. Introduction**

As we all know, in the depletion of fossil resources nowadays, renewable new energy is being gradually pushed into the historical stage. Renewable green energy, mainly hydrogen, is expected to replace traditional fossil resources and become the main energy source of human society's daily life.[1] At present, hydrogen sources are mainly divided into coal,[2] natural gas,[3] and electrolysis of water.[4] Hydrogen can be divided into gray hydrogen and green hydrogen according to different sources and preparation methods. Hydrogen obtained from traditional fossil resources is called "gray hydrogen," such as hydrogen produced from coal and natural gas.[5] The preparation of "gray hydrogen" is accompanied by the consumption of fossil resources and the emission of greenhouse gases. Hydrogen produced by using renewable resources is called "green hydrogen,"[6] which is in line with the double needs of

human society for energy and environment. Electrolysis is the main source of green hydrogen.[7] The traditional electrolytic hydrogen production reaction is the electrolysis of water: 2H2O → O2 + H2. The anode reaction is oxygen evolution reaction (OER) and the cathode reaction is hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). However, due to the high energy consumption owing to the high overpotential and low commercial value of the anodic product of OER, only about 4% of hydrogen is currently derived from the electrolysis of water worldwide.[8]

The standard reaction potential of water electrolysis is about 1.23 V.[9] According to the current research, the electric energy consumed by the electrolysis of water to produce 1 kg of hydrogen is 47.17 kWh kg<sup>−</sup>1. [9] In the last decade, the attention of researchers has been turned to anodic reactions that could replace OER. It is worth noting that the anodic reactions that could replace OER require a lower reaction potential and faster reaction kinetics. A large number of studies have found that the electrocatalytic oxidation reactions of various alcohols have the characteristics of low potential and rapid reaction kinetics, such as methanol electrocatalytic oxidation reaction (MOR),[10] ethanol electrocatalytic oxidation reaction (EOR),[11] and glycerol electrocatalytic oxidation reaction (GOR). Among them, due to the

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.afm-journal.de**

characteristics of ethanol with nontoxic, renewable, wide range of sources, easy storage, safe transportation, and high hydrogen content,[12] EOR has become a competitive alternative anodic reaction for electrolytic hydrogen production. The standard reaction potential of hydrogen production by electrolysis with anodic EOR is about 0.5 V,[13] which is much lower than that of water electrolysis with anodic OER. Moreover, the electric energy consumption of 1 kg of hydrogen produced by electrolysis with anodic EOR is only 18.49 kWh kg<sup>−</sup>1, which is much lower than the electric energy consumption of hydrogen produced by water electrolysis with anodic OER.[9] The anodic product of water electrolysis to produce hydrogen is oxygen, and the anodic product of ethanol electrocatalysis to produce hydrogen is acetate. Acetate has a higher commercial value than oxygen. In addition, avoiding the generation of anodic oxygen is conducive to improving the purity of hydrogen, reducing the purification cost of generating high-purity hydrogen, and avoiding the potential safety risks when hydrogen and oxygen coexist.[8]

Although the reaction potential of EOR is much lower than that of OER, the overpotential required to achieve sufficiently high catalytic reactivity in the actual reaction process is still very high. Therefore, the main limitations of EOR in alkaline solution are insufficient catalytic activity, high overpotential, and sluggish kinetics.[14] In the face of these challenges, researchers have proposed several modification strategies for electrocatalysts.[15] For instance, Xiao et al. successfully synthesized a Pt/-PtOx/WO3 electrocatalyst containing amorphous PtOx structures, which improved the catalytic activity by creating sufficient isolated Pt active sites, and the EOR electrocatalytic activity reached 2760 mA mgPt<sup>−</sup>1. [16] Zhu et al. designed and prepared In-doped subnanometer Pt nanowires for EOR in order to increase the active surface area of electrocatalysts.[17] The two-electrode device for coupled EOR&HER required a voltage of 0.62 V to reach 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. Although these electrocatalyst modification strategies had improved the catalytic activity of the electrocatalyst by increasing the active sites or the active surface area,[18] they did not have a significant effect on the EOR electrocatalytic activity.[19]

Recently, Strmcnik et al. revealed that although there were a large number of active sites on the electrocatalyst surface in alkali metal hydroxide (AMH) solution, quite a few of them were occupied by clusters and could not participate in the electrooxidation reaction process.[20] The clusters were formed by noncovalent interactions between alkali metal ion hydrate (M<sup>+</sup>(H2O)x, M = Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs) and the oxygen-containing species(OHad)adsorbed on the electrocatalyst surface.[21] Further studies clarified that the strength of noncovalent interactions increased with the increase of the electric density of M<sup>+</sup>(H2O)x, as the electrocatalyst surface was negatively charged due to the adsorption of OHad. Thus in LiOH and NaOH solutions, the strong noncovalent interactions would result in a large number of active sites being occupied by OHad–M<sup>+</sup>(H2O)x clusters on the electrocatalyst surface.[22]

To reduce the concentration of M<sup>+</sup>(H2O)x adsorbed on the electrocatalyst surface, decreasing the electronegativity of the surface would be a very effective measure. Copper as a good conductor could increase the electrocatalyst conductivity and make the anode contain more positive charge,[23] which could make it more difficult for positively charged M<sup>+</sup>(H2O)x to be adsorbed on the electrocatalyst surface. Faisal et. al found that Pt-Cu alloy exhibited much higher EOR electrocatalytic activity than Pt/C.[24] Therefore, in this work, copper will be chosen and doped in the form of a single atom in the electrocatalyst (Pt@Cu/C) to reduce the negative effect of OHad–M<sup>+</sup>(H2O)x clusters by increasing the catalytic active sites through electrostatic repulsion, so as to improve catalytic activity and reduce overpotential. The EOR electrocatalytic activity and the EOR mechanism of Pt@Cu/C would be systematically studied, in order to check the effect of the copper doping on the electrocatalyst. In this work, the specific effect of copper doping on EOR catalytic activity, overpotential, reaction kinetics, and energy consumption of hydrogen production would be expounded from the dual perspectives of interfacial interactions and interfacial adsorption of microscopic particles.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

### **2.1. Characterization of Electrocatalysts**

The electrocatalysts were synthesized by chemical reduction method and the TEM images are shown in **Figure 1**a–h. The detailed images of Pt@Cu/C are collected in Figure 1a–c by highresolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM). The lattice fringes with a distance of 0.20 nm is corresponded to the (200) plane of the crystalline structure of Pt,[25] as shown in Figure 1a. The lattice fringes with distances of 0.19 and 0.21 nm are corresponded to the (200)[26] and (111)[27] planes of the crystalline structure of Cu (Figure 1b,c). In the HRTEM images, Pt and Cu single atoms are uniformly dispersed on the lattice plane and highlighted. The diameter of Pt single atoms is slightly larger than that of Cu single atoms. The distribution of elements in the electrocatalyst is observed in Figure 1d–g. The result of Energy Dispersive Spectroscopy (EDS) reveals that C (cyan), Pt (orange), and Cu (green) are uniformly dispersed on the electrocatalyst. The average particle size of PtCu nanoparticles (NPs) is about 5.9 ± 2.1 nm and is evaluated in Figure 1h.

The X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) spectra are conducted to reveal the chemical state of Pt/C and Pt@Cu/C. The XPS analysis of C 1s spectra are shown in Figure S1a,b (Supporting Information). The C 1s spectra of Pt/C and Pt@Cu/C are similar. As shown in Figure S1c,d (Supporting Information), the Cu 2p and CuO 2p peaks reveal the presence of Cu0 and Cu<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>. A shoulder peak of Pt 4f5/2 and Pt 4f7/2 on Pt/C is observed in Figure 1i. The peaks at 74.9 and 71.5 eV correspond to Pt<sup>0</sup> species on Pt/C. The peaks of Pt<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> species on Pt/C are at 75.2 and 71.9 eV. The peaks of Pt<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> species on Pt/C are at 75.9 and 72.5 eV. As a contrast, the peaks of Pt<sup>0</sup> species, Pt<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> species, and Pt<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> species on Pt@Cu/C are at 74.9 and 71.4 eV, 75.2 and 71.7 eV, and 77.1 and 72.1 eV, respectively (Figure 1j). Additionally, a peak at 77.5 eV corresponds to Cu 3p of Pt@Cu/C. Clearly, the area of Pt<sup>0</sup> peaks on Pt@Cu/C is larger than that on Pt/C, while the area of Pt<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> peaks on Pt@Cu/C is less than that on Pt/C. After copper doping, Pt species exists more in the form of Pt<sup>0</sup> on the electrocatalyst. Besides, element types and contents of the obtained electrocatalysts are indispensable to evaluate the performance, as shown in Figure S2a,b (Supporting Information).

**Figure 1.** Material characterization of electrocatalysts. a–c) HRTEM images, d) TEM images, and e–g) the corresponding elemental mapping of Pt@Cu/C. h) TEM images and sizes statistical distribution of Pt@Cu/C. High-resolution XPS spectra of Pt 4f peaks of i) Pt/C and j) Pt@Cu/C.

#### **2.2. Electrochemical Performance of EOR on Pt@Cu/C and Hydrogen Production Performance of Coupled EOR&HER**

The electrocatalytic activities of the obtained electrocatalysts are evaluated in the alkaline media. As shown in **Figure 2**a, the cyclic voltammetry (CV) curves of Pt/C, Pt@Cu(5 wt.%)/C, Pt@Cu(10 wt.%)/C, Pt@Cu(15 wt.%)/C, and Pt@Cu(20 wt.%)/C in the solutions of 0.2 m NaOH and 1 m ethanol are compared. There were two oxidation peaks on the forward scan and backward scan, respectively. The forward oxidation peaks that appear between −0.2 and 0.0 V are ascribed to the step-to-step oxidation reaction of ethanol with a gradual increase in the number of electrons transferred. The backward oxidation peaks that appear between −0.4 and 0.2 V are ascribed to the further oxidation of the EOR intermediate. Notably, the oxidation peaks of Pt@Cu/C are higher than that of Pt/C. As shown in Figure 2b, the forward peak current density of Pt/C and Pt@Cu/C doped with different amounts of copper are compared. The order of current density is: Pt@Cu(10 wt.%)/C *>* Pt@Cu(15 wt.%)/C *>* Pt@Cu(5 wt.%)/C *>* Pt@Cu(20 wt.%)/C *>* Pt/C. This is due to that when the amount of copper doping was too small, the adsorption of clusters on the electrocatalytic surface cannot be inhibited obviously by electrostatic repulsion, and too much copper doping would cover the original platinum active sites, which is not conducive to electrocatalytic reaction. Thus Pt@Cu(10 wt.%)/C displays the highest current density, having the best EOR mass activity of 8184 mA mgPt<sup>−</sup>1. The EOR mass activity of Pt@Cu(10 wt.%)/C is ≈4.8 times as high as that of Pt/C. Meanwhile, the onset potentials of EOR on Pt/C and Pt@Cu/C doped with different amounts of copper are compared in Figure 2c. The onset potentials of Pt@Cu/C are more negative than that of Pt/C and Pt@Cu(10 wt.%)/C displays the most negative onset potential, suggesting the lowest EOR over-potential. The comparison of peak current density and onset potential between Pt/C and Pt@Cu/C shows that 10 wt.% copper is the best dope in Pt/C. The subsequent Pt@Cu/C in this paper represents copper doping of 10 wt.%.

The stability of Pt@Cu/C is also considered an important index to evaluate the performance of electrocatalysts, as the electrocatalysts for EOR are faced with the challenge of being poisoned in the process of catalytic reaction, which leads to the deterioration of stability.[28] When copper is doped in Pt/C, the active component of the electrocatalyst has a certain degree of alloying, which is beneficial to alleviate toxicity and improve stability. In order to prove this mechanism, the cycling stability of Pt/C and Pt@Cu/C is evaluated in Figure 2d by continuously

**Figure 2.** Electrochemical performance of obtained electrocatalysts. a) CV curves of the obtained electrocatalysts in electrolytes consisting of 0.2 m NaOH and 1 m ethanol. b) Mass activities of the electrocatalysts. c) The onset potential of EOR on the obtained electrocatalysts. d) The current densities of EOR on Pt/C and Pt@Cu/C at −0.3 V by continuously scanning CV curves for 100 cycles. e) CV curves in electrolytes consisting of 0.2 m NaOH on Pt/C and Pt@Cu/C. f) CV curves of Pt/C and Pt@Cu/C. The polarization curves for the coupled g) EOR&HER and h) OER&HER in the two-electrode device using Pt/C and Pt@Cu/C. i) The energy consumption of Pt/C and Pt@Cu/C for coupled EOR&HER and OER&HER.

scanning CV curves for 100 cycles (Figure S3, Supporting Information). The current density at −0.3 V of Pt/C decreases from 756 to 570 mA mgPt<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> after 100 cycles. The current density at −0.3 V of Pt@Cu/C decreases from 3513 to 3363 mA mgPt<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> after 100 cycles. This reduction is quite insignificant. Obviously, the stability of Pt@Cu/C is better than that of Pt/C. In the electrocatalytic reaction process, the surface of Pt@Cu/C contains more positive charge, which allows the positively charged M<sup>+</sup>(H2O)x to be adsorbed to the electrocatalyst active sites in less amount, so as to made more efficient use of the limited catalytic active sites. In order to prove this hypothesis, it is important to compare the EOR-specific activities of Pt/C and Pt@Cu/C. The electrochemical active surface area (ECSA) of electrocatalysts should be calculated by means of ECSA = *Q*H/210 (μC cm<sup>−</sup>2),[16] where *Q*<sup>H</sup> is the charge of hydrogen underpotential deposition (*H*UPD).

*Q*<sup>H</sup> = *S*H/*v*, where *S*<sup>H</sup> is the integral area of the *H*UPD region, *v* is the scan rate. The CV curves of Pt/C and Pt@Cu/C for calculating ECSA are measured in Ar-saturated NaOH solutions (Figure 2e). The EOR-specific activities of Pt/C and Pt@Cu/C in the solutions of 0.2 m NaOH and 1 m ethanol are investigated, and the CV curves are compared in Figure 2f. Pt@Cu/C displays the best EOR-specific activity of 42.48 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which is ≈9.2 times as high as that of Pt/C. The higher specific activity of Pt@Cu/C indicates that the active sites on the surface are used more efficiently. Specifically, the active sites of electrocatalysts are less occupied by OHad–M<sup>+</sup>(H2O)x clusters.

To evaluate the performance of using Pt/C and Pt@Cu/C for coupled hydrogen evolution from water splitting by integrating ethanol electrooxidation, a two-electrode device was constructed. The obtained electrocatalysts were used as the anodic electrodes

**Table 1.** The cell voltage and electric energy consumption of Pt/C and Pt@Cu/C for coupled OER&HER and EOR&HER.

| Electrocatalysts | OER&HER             |                                     | EOR&HER             |                                     |
|------------------|---------------------|-------------------------------------|---------------------|-------------------------------------|
|                  | Cell voltage<br>[V] | Energy<br>consumption<br>[kWh kg−1] | Cell voltage<br>[V] | Energy<br>consumption<br>[kWh kg−1] |
| Pt/C             | 1.94                | 51.59                               | 0.76                | 20.22                               |
| Pt@Cu/C          | 1.79                | 47.49                               | 0.60                | 16.03                               |

and a polycrystalline platinum sheet was used as the cathodic electrode. As shown in Figure 2g, the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves of Pt/C and Pt@Cu/C in the solutions of 0.2 m NaOH and 1 m ethanol are compared. The voltage needed for coupled EOR&HER using Pt@Cu/C at 10 mA cm–2 is ≈0.60 V, which is lower than that using Pt/C. Then, the LSV curves of Pt/C and Pt@Cu/C in the solutions of 0.2 m NaOH are compared in Figure 2h. The voltage needed for coupled OER&HER using Pt@Cu/C at 10 mA cm–2 is ≈1.79 V, which is also lower than that using Pt/C. Meanwhile, the voltage needed for coupled EOR&HER at 10 mA cm–2 is much lower than that for coupled OER&HER. These results suggest the advantage of integrating EOR using Pt@Cu/C with HER to enable energy-saving hydrogen generation. In order to further demonstrate the real energysaving hydrogen generation, the electric energy consumed to produce 1 kg of hydrogen should be calculated by means of *W* = *IUT*/*Q* × 103 (kWh kg<sup>−</sup>1),[9] where *W* is the electric energy consumption for preparing 1 kg of hydrogen, *I* is the electrolytic current, *U* is the electrolytic voltage, *T* is the detection time, *Q* is the hydrogen production. As shown in Figure 2i and Table 1, the electric energy consumption of Pt/C and Pt@Cu/C for coupled EOR&HER and coupled OER&HER are compared. The electric energy consumption of Pt/C and Pt@Cu/C for coupled EOR&HER is 20.22 and 16.03 kWh kg<sup>−</sup>1. There is 4.19 kWh kg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> energy saved for coupled EOR&HER using Pt@Cu/C as the anodic electrode. For coupled OER&HER, the electric energy consumption of Pt/C and Pt@Cu/C is 51.59 and 47.49 kWh kg<sup>−</sup>1. These results demonstrate the real energy-saving hydrogen generation of integrating EOR using Pt@Cu/C with HER.

#### **2.3. EOR Mechanisms Based on Noncovalent Interactions**

In order to directly elucidate the mechanism of catalytic performance improvement of electrocatalysts after copper doping, the composition in the electrical double layer of Pt/C and Pt@Cu/C are compared in **Figure 3**a. In AMH solutions, the electrical double layer at the electrocatalysts interface is mainly divided into the stern layer and the diffusion layer. The stern layer can be divided into the inner Helmholtz plane (IHP) and the outer Helmholtz plane (OHP).

In IHP, a layer of OHad is adsorbed on the electrocatalyst surface in the form of chemisorption and plays a decisive role in electrocatalytic processes. In OHP, M<sup>+</sup>(H2O)x combines with OHad by means of noncovalent interactions to form OHad–M<sup>+</sup>(H2O)x clusters. The more clusters, the more active sites on the electrocatalyst surface would be shielded from participating in the electrocatalytic reaction.[20] The concentration of M<sup>+</sup>(H2O)x in OHP is determined by the electrostatic energy at the position of the alkali cation center. The electrostatic energy is mainly evaluated by the electric potential at this position, called stern potential.[20] The stern potential is difficult to measure and is very close to the potential. In general, potential is used to indirectly evaluate the stern potential in different systems.[29] The more positive potential, the higher electrostatic energy at that position. A high electrostatic charge prevents the alkali cations from crossing the site of potential and entering the stern layer. The concentration of OHad–M<sup>+</sup>(H2O)x clusters in OHP decreases, and more active sites are displayed on the electrocatalyst surface.

The potential in the electrical double layer of Pt/C and Pt@Cu/C are compared in Figure 3b. The potential in the electrical double layer of Pt/C is ≈0.012 mV. The potential in the electrical double layer of Pt@Cu/C is about 0.027 mV. Notably, The potential in the electrical double layer of Pt@Cu/C is more positive than that of Pt/C. Thus, the concentration of OHad–M<sup>+</sup>(H2O)x clusters on the surface of Pt@Cu/C is lower than that of Pt/C. In addition, it is necessary to measure the amount of alkali cations on the electrocatalysts. After impregnation in the solutions containing LiOH and drying, the Li element on Pt/C and Pt@Cu/C are detected by XPS (Figure 3c). The Li 1s peaks are observed at 56.1 ± 0.05 eV and the peak intensity of Pt/C is ≈1.34 times that of Pt@Cu/C. Figure S4 (Supporting Information) elucidates that the Li element exists as inorganic products (LiF, Li2CO3, and Li2O).[30] These results suggest that the electrostatic energy of the central position of alkali cations is changed after copper was doped in the electrocatalyst as a good conductor. The concentration of M<sup>+</sup>(H2O)x in the electrical double layer decreases. Due to this decrease, the active sites on the electrocatalyst surface are less occupied by clusters and can be effectively used for electrocatalytic reactions.

#### **2.4. Comparison of EOR Activities in Different AMH Solutions on Pt@Cu/C**

Compared with Pt/C, a smaller amount of OHad–M<sup>+</sup>(H2O)x clusters is adsorbed on the active sites of Pt@Cu/C in alkali metal hydroxide (AMH) solution, resulting in the improvement of electrocatalytic activity. In order to further confirm this mechanism, the electrochemical performance of Pt/C and Pt@Cu/C are investigated in different AMH solutions. Before each EOR test, ECSA should be calculated. The CV curves of Pt@Cu/C are measured in Ar-saturated AMH solutions (**Figure 4**a). The current peaks that appear between −0.8 and −0.4 V are ascribed to the hydrogen deposition regions. The resulting ECSA of Pt@Cu/C in LiOH, NaOH, KOH, and CsOH are 0.19, 0.17, 0.20, and 0.18 cm2, respectively (Figure 4b). The EOR electrocatalytic activities of Pt@Cu/C in the solutions of 0.2 m alkali hydroxides (LiOH, NaOH, KOH, and CsOH) and 1 m ethanol are investigated, and the CV curves are compared in Figure 4c. There are two oxidation peaks on the forward scan and backward scan. The forward peak current density is considered to be an important indicator for evaluating EOR-specific activity. As shown in Figure 4d, the forward peak current densities of Pt@Cu/C and Pt/C in different AMH solutions are compared. Notably, the EOR-specific activities of Pt@Cu/C are higher than that of Pt/C. The forward peak current densities of Pt@Cu/C in LiOH, NaOH, KOH, and

**Figure 3.** a) The composition in the electrical double layer of Pt/C and Pt@Cu/C. b) The potential of Pt/C and Pt@Cu/C in 0.2 m AMH and 1 m ethanol solution. c) XPS spectra of Li 1s peaks of Pt/C and Pt@Cu/C.

CsOH are 24.54, 42.48, 29.58, and 15.92 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which is ≈14, 9, 4, and 6 times respectively as high as those of Pt/C. The result suggests that copper doping in Pt/C can greatly improve the EOR-specific catalytic activity of electrocatalysts in AMH solutions. And the EOR-specific catalytic activity of electrocatalysts increases with the increase of electronegativity of M<sup>+</sup>(H2O)x. Thus the EOR-specific catalytic activity of Pt@Cu/C in LiOH shows the largest increase, as the concentration of OHad–M<sup>+</sup>(H2O)x clusters that shielded the active sites on the electrocatalyst surface is the highest in LiOH owing to the largest electric density of Li<sup>+</sup>(H2O)x. The results suggest that the EOR-specific catalytic activity of Pt@Cu/C is improved by reducing the concentration of OHad–M<sup>+</sup>(H2O)x clusters and releasing the active sites on the electrocatalyst surface.

In order to further confirm this mechanism, the effective diffusion coefficient of ethanol molecules in the electrical double layer of Pt@Cu/C is calculated by the chrono current curves of EOR and the Cottrell equation, log(*I*) = log(*nAFC*<sup>0</sup> \**D*0.5<sup>−</sup>0.5) – 0.5log(*t*), where *I* presents the current, *n* is the number of electrons, *A* is the area of the rotating ring disk electrode, *F* is the faraday constant, *C*<sup>0</sup> \* is the bulk concentration of ethanol, *D* is the diffusion coefficient of ethanol, and *t* is the time of the chrono current curves.[31] As shown in Figure 4e, the relation curves of log(I)–log(t) in different AMH solutions is transformed from the chrono current curves at −0.3 V. Combined with the Cottrell equation, the effective diffusion coefficients of ethanol molecules are obtained in Figure 4f. The effective diffusion coefficient of ethanol molecules in KOH is the largest, followed by NaOH and LiOH, and that in CsOH is the smallest. It is most noteworthy that the effective diffusion coefficient of ethanol molecules in LiOH is similar to that in NaOH. The copper doping in Pt/C greatly increases the effective diffusion coefficient of ethanol molecules in LiOH and eliminates the difference between the effective diffusion coefficient in LiOH and NaOH. This result further confirms that the EOR-specific catalytic activity of Pt@Cu/C is improved by reducing the concentration of OHad–M<sup>+</sup>(H2O)x clusters.

#### **2.5. Raman Spectroscopic Analysis of the EOR Intermediates**

Beyond the catalytic activity, overpotential, and stability, faraday efficiency is also one of the major challenges facing hydrogen production from EOR. EOR can be divided into different reaction paths according to the different degrees of ethanol oxidation,[12] as shown in Equations 1 and 2. The essential difference between

**Figure 4.** Electrochemical performance of Pt@Cu/C in different AMH solutions. a) CV curves in electrolytes consisting of 0.2 m AMH. b) ECSA of Pt@Cu/C in different AMH solutions. c) CV curves of EOR in electrolytes consisting of 0.2 m AMH and 1 m ethanol. d) The peak current density of EOR on Pt/C and Pt@Cu/C. e) Relation curves of log(I)–log(t) in different AMH solutions on Pt@Cu/C transformed from the chrono current curves at −0.3 V. f) Comparison of effective diffusion coefficients of ethanol in different AMH solutions on Pt@Cu/C.

Equations 1 and 2 is whether the C–C bond of ethanol is broken. Currently, the C–C bond of ethanol is difficult to break,[32] resulting in a low number of electrons transferred and low faraday efficiency.[33] Therefore, the C–C cleavage is crucial for improving faraday efficiency.

$$CH_3CH_2OH + 12OH^- \rightarrow 2CO_2 + 9H_2O + 12e^-$$

$$\mathrm{CH_{3}CH_{2}OH} \ + \ 4\mathrm{OH^{-}} \rightarrow \mathrm{CH_{3}COOH} + 3\mathrm{H_{2}O} + 4\mathrm{e^{-}}$$

To further clarify the reaction paths followed by EOR on Pt/C and Pt@Cu/C, potential-dependent in situ Raman spectroscopy[34] is carried out for species changes on the surface of Pt/C and Pt@Cu/C during EOR at potentials between open circuit potential (OCP) and −0.1 V at 0.1 V intervals, and the results are shown in Figure S5 (Supporting Information).

The in-situ Raman spectra of Pt/C are recorded within 1000 and 1400 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> (**Figure 5**a). Clearly, the stretching vibration peak of the acetaldehyde C–C bond is observed at 1200 cm<sup>−</sup>1, which exists in the whole range of detection potential. This stretching vibration peak of the acetaldehyde C–C bond at −0.5 V is the highest. Within 1800 and 2000 cm<sup>−</sup>1, there is a peak at −0.1 V corresponding to CO species observed at ≈1914 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> in Figure 5b. This result reveals that the C–C bond of ethanol is broken at −0.1 V during EOR on Pt/C.

The in situ Raman spectra of Pt@Cu/C within 1000 and 1400 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> are recorded in Figure 5c. There is also the stretching vibration peak of the acetaldehyde C–C bond at 1200 cm<sup>−</sup>1, and the peak at −0.5 V is the highest. In addition, at −0.5 V, a peak assigned to CO species is observed at ≈1894 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> in Figure 5d. Compared with Pt/C, the peak of CO species on Pt@Cu/C appears at a lower potential, and the detection peak shows a certain degree of redshift. These results suggest that the C–C bond of ethanol can be broken at a lower potential on Pt@Cu/C. It is attributed to more active sites on the electrocatalyst surface and more negative onset potential of EOR after copper doping.[35] Therefore, during the electrocatalytic oxidation of ethanol, copper doping of electrocatalyst is helpful to C–C bond cleavage, which is crucial for improving Faraday efficiency.

## **3. Conclusion**

In this work, to avoid the active sites on the electrocatalyst surface being occupied by OHad–M<sup>+</sup>(H2O)x clusters, Pt@Cu/C as a charge-modified electrocatalyst is obtained. Pt@Cu/C shows excellent EOR activity (8184 mA mgPt<sup>−</sup>1), lower overpotential, and better catalytic stability. Using Pt@Cu/C as anode, the voltage of coupled EOR&HER at 10 mA cm–2 is about 0.60 V and the electric energy consumption required to produce 1 kg of hydrogen is 16.03 kWh kg<sup>−</sup>1. The electrolytic hydrogen production process achieves significant energy saving.

Electrochemical experiments of Pt/C and Pt@Cu/C in different AMH solutions confirm that the adsorption of OHad–M<sup>+</sup>(H2O)x clusters on the electrocatalysts surface reduces the EOR-specific catalytic activity. In LiOH and NaOH, the

**Figure 5.** Potential-dependent in-situ Raman spectra of a,b) Pt/C and c,d) Pt@Cu/C recorded in 0.2 m NaOH and 1 m ethanol solution within wavenumber ranges of 1000 to 1400 cm−<sup>1</sup> and 1800 to 2000 cm<sup>−</sup>1.

adsorption of a large number of clusters on the Pt/C surface results in the decrease of EOR-specific catalytic activity. After copper doping, the EOR-specific catalytic activity is greatly increased, especially in LiOH and NaOH, which is attributed to the decreased concentration of clusters on the Pt@Cu/C surface. The more positive potential in the electrical double layer and the lower Li content after impregnation and drying further confirm that the concentration of OHad–M<sup>+</sup>(H2O)x clusters adsorbed on Pt@Cu/C surface decreases significantly. Based on this, the active sites on the electrocatalyst surface are fully utilized.

Therefore, from the perspective of efficient utilization of surface active sites, the obtained Pt@Cu/C electrocatalyst can realize the enhancement of EOR activity, the reduction of overpotential, the improvement of catalytic stability, and more energy-saving electrolytic hydrogen production.

## **4. Experimental Section**

*Materials*: All the solutions were prepared using high-purity Milli-Q water (resistivity = 18.2 MΩ cm). All reagents used in the experiments were commercially available analytical grade. Vulcan XC-72R was purchased from Suzhou Sinero Technology Co., Ltd (China). Ethanol, potassium hydroxide (KOH), sodium borohydride (NaBH4), hydrochloric acid (HCl), and nitric acid (HNO3) were purchased from Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co., Ltd (China). Chloroplatinic acid (H2PtCl6·6H2O) was purchased from Shanghai Macklin Biochemical Co., Ltd (China). Nafion 117 solution (5%), lithium hydroxide monohydrate (LiOH·H2O), and cesium hydroxide monohydrate (CsOH·H2O) were purchased from Aladdin. Sodium hydroxide (NaOH) and isopropyl alcohol were purchased from Beijing Chemical Works. Copper chloride dehydrate (CuCl2·2H2O) was purchased from XiLong Scientific Co., Ltd (China). Pure Argon (≥99.99%) and high-purity Nitrogen (≥99.999%) were supplied by Tianjin Huanyu Gas Co., Ltd.

*Synthesis of Pt@Cu/C*: At first, carbon support (Vulcan XC-72R) should be pretreated. Five grams of carbon powder was pickled with 50 mL hydrochloric acid (HCl) for 3 h at room temperature. Then, the mixture was filtered and washed to neutral, and dried at 80 °C for 12 hours. After pickling, carbon powder was mixed with HNO3 (mass ratio of solid to liquid 1:10), heated to 90 °C, and stirred at reflux for 3 h. The mixture was filtered and washed with high-purity water for several times, and dried at 80 °C for 12 h. One grams pretreated carbon powder was dispersed in 300 mL high-purity water for 30 min of ultrasonic treatment to prepare carbon slurry. At room temperature, 0.296 g H2PtCl6·6H2O was added to the carbon slurry, and the mixed liquor was stirred for 2 h. The pH of the mixed liquor was adjusted to 9. Then, 5 mL of freshly prepared solution (containing 1 g NaBH4) was added to the mixed liquor. The mixed liquor was stirred at 80 °C for 2 h. Subsequently, the mixture was cooled, filtered, washed to be Cl<sup>−</sup> free (AgNO3 test), and dried at 80 °C for 12 h. Finally, Pt/C electrocatalyst was obtained after 3 h annealing in N2 atmosphere at 300 °C.

*Synthesis of Pt@Cu/C*: One gram pretreated carbon powder was dispersed in 300 mL high-purity water for 30 min of ultrasonic treatment to prepare carbon slurry. At room temperature, 0.268 g CuCl2·2H2O was added to the carbon slurry and the mixed liquor was stirred for 30 min. The pH of the mixed liquor was adjusted to 9 and 5 mL of freshly prepared solution (containing 0.9 g NaBH4) was added to the mixed liquor. The mixed liquor was stirred at 80 °C for 2 h. Then, 0.296 g H2PtCl6·6H2O was added to the carbon slurry and the mixed liquor was stirred for 2 h. The pH of the mixed liquor was adjusted to 9 and 5 mL freshly prepared solution (containing 1 g NaBH4) was added to the mixed liquor. The mixed liquor was also stirred at 80 °C for 2 h. Subsequently, the mixture was cooled, filtered, washed to be Cl<sup>−</sup> free, and dried at 80 °C for 12 h. Finally, Pt@Cu/C electrocatalyst was obtained after 3 h of annealing in N2 atmosphere at 300 °C.

*Characterization*: The scanning electron microscope (SEM) images were obtained using JSM-7610F. The transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images were obtained using JEOL JEM-2100F at an accelerating voltage of 200 kV. The X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) (ESCALAB 250Xi) was used to study the chemical composition of Pt/C and Pt@Cu/C. The potentials were obtained using Nano-ZS. The electrochemical experiments were conducted in a traditional three-electrode electrochemical cell with reactions controlled by a CHI760E workstation (CH Instruments Inc., Shanghai). Ten milligram electrocatalysts, 450 μL high purity Milli-Q water, 50 μL isopropyl alcohol, and 100 μL 5% Nafion were mixed to form catalyst ink. The catalyst ink was dropped on a polished glassy carbon (GC) electrode and then dried at room temperature as the working electrode. A polycrystalline platinum sheet (1 × 1 cm2) was used as the counter electrode. All the potentials were measured versus Ag/AgCl reference electrode. The cyclic voltammetry (CV) curves of Pt/C were obtained in 0.2 m different alkali metal hydroxide (AMH) solutions at a scan rate of 50 mV s−<sup>1</sup> between −1 and 0.8 V. Then, the CV experiments of electrocatalysts were conducted in 200 mL electrolytes consisting of 0.2 m AMH and

1 m ethanol. The potential was scanned from −0.7 to 0.5 V and the electrolytes were saturated with pure Argon gas. The chrono current curves were obtained by step change of the control potential from the open circuit potential to −0.3 V. A two-electrode cell was fabricated to conduct the coupled EOR&HER electrocatalysis (1 m ethanol + 0.2 m NaOH in the cell) and OER&HER electrocatalysis (0.2 m NaOH in the cell). The GC electrode dripping catalyst ink was used as the anode. A polycrystalline platinum sheet (1 × 1 cm2) was used as the cathode.

*In Situ Raman Spectroscopy*: All the in situ Raman experiments were recorded using a Renishaw UV–vis Raman 1000 system equipped with a CCD detector and a Leica DMLM microscope. An Ar<sup>+</sup> laser with the wavelength of 532 nm was used for excitation, which could generate highquality Raman data. The electrochemical data were obtained in a homemade in-situ Raman cell with a three-electrode setup and a quartz window. The collection of in situ Raman spectra was carried out during the chronoamperometric measurements by a CHI760E workstation.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# **Acknowledgements**

The authors gratefully acknowledge the support from the National Key R&D Program of China (No.2022YFC3901002), IPE Project for Frontier Basic Research (No.QYJC-2022-004), and HBIS Group Co., Ltd Key R&D Program (No.HG2022111).

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Data Availability Statement**

Research data are not shared.

## **Keywords**

active sites, catalytic activity, ethanol electrocatalytic oxidation reaction, hydrogen evolution reaction, hydrogen generation

> Received: May 16, 2023 Revised: June 4, 2023 Published online: July 2, 2023

- [1] a) M. Jin, X. Zhang, S. Niu, Q. Wang, R. Huang, R. Ling, J. Huang, R. Shi, A. Amini, C. Cheng, *ACS Nano* **2022**, *16*, 11577; b) A. Caravaca, A. de Lucas-Consuegra, A. B. Calcerrada, J. Lobato, J. L. Valverde, F. Dorado, *Appl. Catal., B* **2013**, *134–135*, 302; c) F. Chen, N. Duic, L. Manuel Alves, M. da Graça Carvalho, *Renew. Sust. Energ. Rev.* **2007**, *11*, 1888.
- [2] P. Intasian, K. Prakinee, A. Phintha, D. Trisrivirat, N. Weeranoppanant, T. Wongnate, P. Chaiyen, *Chem. Rev.* **2021**, *121*, 10367.
- [3] L. Lei, F. Pan, A. Lindbrathen, X. Zhang, M. Hillestad, Y. Nie, L. Bai, X. He, M. D. Guiver, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 268.
- [4] a) B. Huang, R. R. Rao, S. You, K. Hpone Myint, Y. Song, Y. Wang, W. Ding, L. Giordano, Y. Zhang, T. Wang, S. Muy, Y. Katayama, J. C.

- Grossman, A. P. Willard, K. Xu, Y. Jiang, Y. Shao-Horn, *J. Am. Chem. Soc. Au* **2021**, *1*, 1674; b) X. Zhang, M. Zhang, Y. Deng, M. Xu, L. Artiglia, W. Wen, R. Gao, B. Chen, S. Yao, X. Zhang, M. Peng, J. Yan, A. Li, Z. Jiang, X. Gao, S. Cao, C. Yang, A. J. Kropf, J. Shi, J. Xie, M. Bi, J. A. van Bokhoven, Y. W. Li, X. Wen, M. Flytzani-Stephanopoulos, C. Shi, W. Zhou, D. Ma, *Nature* **2021**, *589*, 396.
- [5] F. Osselin, C. Soulaine, C. Fauguerolles, E. C. Gaucher, B. Scaillet, M. Pichavant, *Nat. Geosci.* **2022**, *15*, 765.
- [6] A. Odenweller, F. Ueckerdt, G. F. Nemet, M. Jensterle, G. Luderer, *Nat. Energy* **2022**, *7*, 854.
- [7] X. Zhao, L. Dai, Q. Qin, F. Pei, C. Hu, N. Zheng, *Small* **2017**, *13*, 1602970.
- [8] C.-A. Zhou, S. Wang, K. Ma, L. Song, L. Zheng, H. Yue, *Appl. Catal., B* **2023**, *321*, 122065.
- [9] Y. X. Chen, A. Lavacchi, H. A. Miller, M. Bevilacqua, J. Filippi, M. Innocenti, A. Marchionni, W. Oberhauser, L. Wang, F. Vizza, *Nat. Commun.* **2014**, *5*, 4036.
- [10] a) B. Wang, L. Tao, Y. Cheng, F. Yang, Y. Jin, C. Zhou, H. Yu, Y. Yang, *Catal* **2019**, *9*, 387; b) P. Justin, G. R. Rao, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2011**, *36*, 5875.
- [11] a) C. Lamy, T. Jaubert, S. Baranton, C. Coutanceau, *J. Power Sources* **2014**, *245*, 927; b) X. Yuan, X. Jiang, M. Cao, L. Chen, K. Nie, Y. Zhang, Y. Xu, X. Sun, Y. Li, Q. Zhang, *Nano Res.* **2018**, *12*, 429; c) D. Liu, Q. Zeng, C. Hu, H. Liu, D. Chen, Y. Han, L. Xu, J. Yang, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 9092; d) Y. Liu, B. Lan, Y. Yang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2022**, *10*, 20946.
- [12] H. Lv, L. Sun, Y. Wang, S. Liu, B. Liu, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2203612.
- [13] V. Bambagioni, M. Bevilacqua, C. Bianchini, J. Filippi, A. Lavacchi, A. Marchionni, F. Vizza, P. K. Shen, *Chem. Sus. Chem.* **2010**, *3*, 851.
- [14] X. Fu, C. Wan, Y. Huang, X. Duan, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2106401.
- [15] H. Wang, L. Jiao, L. Zheng, Q. Fang, Y. Qin, X. Luo, X. Wei, L. Hu, W. Gu, J. Wen, C. Zhu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2103465.
- [16] L. Xiao, G. Li, Z. Yang, K. Chen, R. Zhou, H. Liao, Q. Xu, J. Xu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2100982.
- [17] Y. Zhu, X. Zhu, L. Bu, Q. Shao, Y. Li, Z. Hu, C. T. Chen, C. W. Pao, S. Yang, X. Huang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*, 2004310.
- [18] a) Y. Zheng, X. Wan, X. Cheng, K. Cheng, Z. Dai, Z. Liu, *Catal* **2020**, *10*, 166; b) Z. R. Yang, S. Q. Wang, J. Wang, A. J. Zhou, C. W. Xu, *Sci. Rep.* **2017**, *7*, 15479; c) F. Guo, Y. Li, B. Fan, Y. Liu, L. Lu, Y. Lei, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2018**, *10*, 4705.
- [19] A. S. Malkani, J. Li, N. J. Oliveira, M. He, X. Chang, B. Xu, Q. Lu, *Sci. Adv.* **2020**, *6*, eabd2569.
- [20] D. Strmcnik, K. Kodama, D. van der Vliet, J. Greeley, V. R. Stamenkovic, N. M. Markovic, *Nat. Chem.* **2009**, *1*, 466.
- [21] a) E. Liu, J. Li, L. Jiao, H. T. T. Doan, Z. Liu, Z. Zhao, Y. Huang, K. M. Abraham, S. Mukerjee, Q. Jia, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 3232; b) G. Cabello, E. P. Leiva, C. Gutierrez, A. Cuesta, *Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.* **2014**, *16*, 14281.
- [22] C. Han, Y. Lyu, S. Wang, B. Liu, Y. Zhang, H. Du, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2022**, *14*, 5318.
- [23] a) S. H. Han, H. M. Liu, P. Chen, J. X. Jiang, Y. Chen, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1801326; b) M. Ammam, E. B. Easton, *J. Power Sources* **2013**, *222*, 79; c) S. Zhou, R. Yan, W. Zhou, C. Wu, W. Cheng, *J. Electroanal. Chem.* **2023**, *929*, 117118.
- [24] F. Saleem, Z. Zhang, B. Xu, X. Xu, P. He, X. Wang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 18304.
- [25] F. Lyu, M. Cao, A. Mahsud, Q. Zhang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, 15445.
- [26] J. Bu, Z. Liu, W. Ma, L. Zhang, T. Wang, H. Zhang, Q. Zhang, X. Feng, J. Zhang, *Nat. Catal.* **2021**, *4*, 557.
- [27] Z. Lyu, S. Zhu, M. Xie, Y. Zhang, Z. Chen, R. Chen, M. Tian, M. Chi, M. Shao, Y. Xia, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 1909.
- [28] a) M. Sawangphruk, A. Krittayavathananon, N. Chinwipas, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2013**, *1*, 1030; b) W. Huang, X. Kang, C. Xu, J. Zhou, J. Deng, Y. Li, S. Cheng, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1706962; c) W. Huang, H. Wang,

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.afm-journal.de**

J. Zhou, J. Wang, P. N. Duchesne, D. Muir, P. Zhang, N. Han, F. Zhao, M. Zeng, J. Zhong, C. Jin, Y. Li, S. T. Lee, H. Dai, *Nat. Commun.* **2015**, *6*, 10035.

- [29] a) B.-L. Zhang, W. Qiu, P.-P. Wang, Y.-L. Liu, J. Zou, L. Wang, J. Ma, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2020**, *385*, 123507; b) Q. Deng, J. Weissmuller, *Langmuir* **2014**, *30*, 10522.
- [30] a) D. Wu, J. He, J. Liu, M. Wu, S. Qi, H. Wang, J. Huang, F. Li, D. Tang, J. Ma, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2200337; b) X. Wang, S. Wang, H. Wang, W. Tu, Y. Zhao, S. Li, Q. Liu, J. Wu, Y. Fu, C. Han, F. Kang, B. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2007945.
- [31] P. Balakrishna Pillai, A. Kumar, X. Song, M. M. De Souza, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2018**, *10*, 9782.
- [32] a) R.-L. Wei, M.-Y. Miao, Y. Liu, X.-L. Jiang, Y.-Y. Yang, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2021**, *125*, 12086; b) W. Huang, X. Y. Ma, H. Wang, R. Feng, J. Zhou,

- P. N. Duchesne, P. Zhang, F. Chen, N. Han, F. Zhao, J. Zhou, W. B. Cai, Y. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1703057.
- [33] J. Zhang, J. Ye, Q. Fan, Y. Jiang, Y. Zhu, H. Li, Z. Cao, Q. Kuang, J. Cheng, J. Zheng, Z. Xie, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 11232.
- [34] a) Y. H. Wang, S. Zheng, W. M. Yang, R. Y. Zhou, Q. F. He, P. Radjenovic, J. C. Dong, S. Li, J. Zheng, Z. L. Yang, G. Attard, F. Pan, Z. Q. Tian, J. F. Li, *Nature* **2021**, *600*, 81; b) S. Hou, L. Xu, X. Ding, R. M. Kluge, T. K. Sarpey, R. W. Haid, B. Garlyyev, S. Mukherjee, J. Warnan, M. Koch, S. Zhang, W. Li, A. S. Bandarenka, R. A. Fischer, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202201610.
- [35] a) Y. Guo, B. Li, S. Shen, L. Luo, G. Wang, J. Zhang, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2021**, *13*, 16602; b) A. Auer, M. Andersen, E.-M. Wernig, N. G. Hörmann, N. Buller, K. Reuter, J. Kunze-Liebhäuser, *Nat. Catal.* **2020**, *3*, 797.