---
source: Huang 等 - 2017 - Promoting Effect of Ni(OH)2 on Palladium Nanocrystals Leads to Greatly Improved Operation.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 37.955s
generated: 2026-01-09T04:46:35.605265Z
---

**Nanocrystals**

**www.advmat.de**

# **Promoting Effect of Ni(OH)2 on Palladium Nanocrystals Leads to Greatly Improved Operation Durability for Electrocatalytic Ethanol Oxidation in Alkaline Solution**

*Wenjing Huang, Xian-Yin Ma, Han Wang, Renfei Feng, Jigang Zhou, Paul N. Duchesne, Peng Zhang, Fengjiao Chen, Na Han, Feipeng Zhao, Junhua Zhou, Wen-Bin Cai,\* and Yanguang Li\**

**Most electrocatalysts for the ethanol oxidation reaction suffer from extremely limited operational durability and poor selectivity toward the CC bond cleavage. In spite of tremendous efforts over the past several decades, little progress has been made in this regard. This study reports the remarkable promoting effect of Ni(OH)2 on Pd nanocrystals for electrocatalytic ethanol oxidation reaction in alkaline solution. A hybrid electrocatalyst consisting of intimately mixed nanosized Pd particles, defective Ni(OH)2 nanoflakes, and a graphene support is prepared via a two-step solution method. The optimal product exhibits a high mass-specific peak current of >1500 mA mg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> Pd, and excellent operational durability forms both cycling and chronoamperometric measurements in alkaline solution. Most impressively, this hybrid catalyst retains a mass-specific current of 440 mA mg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> even after 20 000 s of chronoamperometric testing, and its original activity can be regenerated via simple cyclic voltammetry cycles in clean KOH. This great catalyst durability is understood based on both CO stripping and in situ attenuated total reflection infrared experiments suggesting that the presence of Ni(OH)2 alleviates the poisoning of Pd nanocrystals by carbonaceous intermediates. The incorporation of Ni(OH)2 also markedly shifts the reaction selectivity from the originally predominant C2 pathway toward the more desirable C1 pathway, even at room temperature.**

Fuel cells based on the electrochemical oxidation of small organic molecules have been gaining increasing attention over recent years by virtue of their large energy/power density and the easy storage/delivery of liquid fuels.[1,2] Among these fuel cells, direct ethanol fuel cells (DEFCs) are of particular interest.[1–3] This is largely because ethanol has low toxicity and can be produced in large quantities from renewable, virtually inexhaustible biomass. The complete oxidation of ethanol is accompanied by the sequential transfer of 12 electrons, rendering it capable of delivering higher energy density than other liquid fuels such as methanol or formic acid. Despite their great potential, the development of DEFCs has been impeded by the lack of sufficiently active and durable electrocatalysts for the ethanol oxidation reaction (EOR) at the anode. Most currently available EOR electrocatalysts are Pt or Pd-based materials,[4–10] which suffer from severe activity loss, due to their rapid poisoning by reaction intermediates sometimes within hundreds of seconds of operation.[9,10] Moreover, the majority of these EOR electrocatalysts strongly favor the C2 pathway, usually leading to the formation of acetate as the final oxidation product and thus incomplete utilization of the liquid fuel; for these electrocatalysts,

the preferred C1 pathway that involves CC bond splitting and ultimately CO2 formation is kinetically hindered.[11–13] The EOR selectivity for the C1 pathway on Pt and Pd has been previously reported to be only 1% and 2.5%, respectively, at room temperature.[14–16]

W. J. Huang, F. J. Chen, N. Han, F. P. Zhao, J. H. Zhou, Prof. Y. G. Li Institute of Functional Nano & Soft Materials (FUNSOM) Jiangsu Key Laboratory for Carbon-Based Functional Materials and Devices Soochow University Suzhou 215123, China E-mail: yanguang@suda.edu.cn X.-Y. Ma Shanghai Key Laboratory of Materials Protection and Advanced Materials in Electric Power Shanghai University of Electric Power Shanghai 200090, China

**DOI: 10.1002/adma.201703057**

H. Wang, Prof. W.-B. Cai

Shanghai Key Laboratory of Molecular Catalysis and Innovative Materials Collaborative Innovation Center of Chemistry for Energy Materials

Department of Chemistry Fudan University

Shanghai 200433, China E-mail: wbcai@fudan.edu.cn

Dr. R. F. Feng, Dr. J. G. Zhou Canadian Light Source Inc.

Saskatoon, Saskatchewan S7N 0X4, Canada

P. N. Duchesne, Prof. P. Zhang Department of Chemistry Dalhousie University Halifax NS B3H 4R2, Canada

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201703057.

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.advmat.de**

A commonly sought strategy to improve catalyst stability (and sometimes, selectivity) is the rational design of multicomponent systems such as intermetallic alloys or transition metal oxide hybrids.[8–10,17] It is believed that the synergistic interactions in such multicomponent systems can modify the electronic structure of precious metal catalysts and weaken their bonding with reaction intermediates; the presence of other components may also contribute additional OH adspecies to assist the further oxidation of carbonaceous intermediates adsorbed on Pt or Pd surfaces.[3,8] Studies suggest that CO is the primary surface poison formed during the EOR, and its rapid oxidative removal would not only benefit catalyst stability but also enhance selectivity toward the C1 pathway.[14] Despite the tremendous efforts over the past decades, the gain in the operational durability and selectivity has been far from satisfactory. There are few, if any, existing examples of EOR electrocatalysts that can last more than 1 h of use.[18–21]

Herein, we propose that Ni(OH)2 may be a unique material for promoting the EOR performance of existing electrocatalysts. This is because Ni(OH)2 can readily facilitate water dissociation to form OH adspecies in alkaline media[22,23] and, when placed close to precious metal nanoparticles, may subsequently remedy their poisoning during the EOR. At present, most attention on Ni(OH)2 in electrocatalysis is concentrated on its ability to oxidize water.[23–25] It is only in recent years that its unexpected promoting effects in electrocatalytic hydrogen evolution, hydrogen oxidation, and CO oxidation have begun to be unveiled and appreciated.[22,23,26,27] Optimization of this promoting effect would require the preparation of nanosized Ni(OH)2 particles with abundant structural defects, which are believed to be the preferable sites for water dissociative adsorption.[22] These hydroxide particles also need to interface intimately with precious metal nanoparticles so as to maximize their electronic interactions and the synergistic effect. Finally, the hybrid material should be hosted on a highly conductive carbon support with large surface areas so as to offset the poor electrical conductivity of Ni(OH)2.

Guided by the aforementioned design principle, we developed a simple low-temperature solution method to prepare Pd/ Ni(OH)2/graphene hybrid materials for use in EOR electrocatalysis. We chose Pd over Pt as a proof of concept due to its lower material cost and higher activity in alkaline media.[8,28] The resultant hybrid electrocatalysts featured defective Ni(OH)2 nanostructures decorated with nanosized Pd particles and supported on graphene nanosheets. Their mutual synergistic interaction afforded the hybrid electrocatalyst with excellent electrocatalytic activity and durability for EOR, as well as improved selectivity toward the C1 pathway, in alkaline solution.

We followed a two-step solution method to prepare the hybrid material as detailed in the Experimental Section (**Figure 1**a). In the first step, Ni(OH)2 nanoflakes were selectively grown on graphene oxide (GO) nanosheets via the controlled hydrolysis of nickel acetate in *N,N*-dimethyl formamide (DMF) at 85 °C overnight.[29] The thus-formed Ni(OH)2/GO hybrid was then collected, redispersed in the mixed solution of ethylene glycol and water, treated with K2PdCl4 and sodium citrate successively, and subjected to microwave heating for 2 min.[30] During the very short period of intense microwave heating, GO was converted to reduced graphene oxide (rGO) with partially recovered electric conductivity, and PdCl4 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> was reduced to metallic Pd nanoparticles anchored on graphene. The final product was named as Pd/Ni(OH)2/rGO. We selected the microwave heating method over other more sophisticated solution approaches for its relative simplicity, high reproducibility, and amenability to large-scale production. By adjusting the starting precursor ratio, we were able to vary the relative content of the three components in the final product. The best material was found to contain 51.3 wt% Pd and 9.9 wt% Ni from inductive coupled plasma (ICP) analysis. In the following discussion, we will focus our attention on the hybrid electrocatalyst with this specific composition.

The crystalline phase composition of the hybrid was first confirmed using X-ray diffraction (XRD). Intermediate product from the first step exhibited diffraction peaks assignable to β-Ni(OH)2 (Figure 1b). Its broad (00l) peak was indicative of its small nanoflake thickness. After the subsequent growth of Pd nanoparticle, the XRD pattern of the final product became dominated by the metallic Pd; comparatively, the Ni(OH)2 signal was much suppressed. Figure 1c illustrates the scanning electron microscopy (SEM) image of Pd/Ni(OH)2/rGO. Ni(OH)2 nanoflakes of a few hundred nanometers in width and varying contrast (i.e., thickness) were randomly distributed over the entire rGO nanosheet. Individual Pd nanoparticles were also observed as tiny dots uniformly decorating the nanosheet. When examined under transmission electron microscopy (TEM), Pd nanoparticles became clearly visible (Figure 1d), with sizes in the range of 3–10 nm. It is worth noting that no additional effort was made to control the size or shape of Pd nanoparticles so as to keep the preparation method as straightforward as possible. Close examination revealed that these nanoparticles displayed obvious lattice fringes from the (111) plane, reflecting their high crystallinity (Figure 1e). By contrast, we were unable to identify Ni(OH)2 nanoflakes from TEM probably due to their poor image contrast relative to the underlying rGO support. Nevertheless, the presence of Ni was unambiguously evidenced by energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) under scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM; Figure 1f). The Ni signal was found to be ubiquitous and distributed over the rGO nanosheet (Figure 1g). Moreover, the spatial distribution of Pd was also mapped and found well consistent with its physical position observed from STEM (Figure 1h). When the signals of Ni and Pd were compared, it became apparent that these two components were intimately interfaced with one another (Figure 1j).

X-ray-based spectroscopic characterizations were carried out to interrogate the bonding environment of Ni and Pd in the hybrid electrocatalyst. The Ni 2p X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) spectrum exhibited 2p3/2 peak at 855.5 eV and 2p1/2 peak at 873.3 eV, characteristic of β-Ni(OH)2 (**Figure 2**a).[31] The Pd 3d XPS spectrum revealed the contribution from both metallic (3d5/2 at 335.4 eV) and divalent Pd (3d5/2 at 336.4 eV) (Figure 2b), with the latter presumably resulting from the superficial oxidation of Pd due to their nanosized feature.[32,33] No other impurity was detected from the survey spectrum (Figure S1, Supporting Information). Furthermore, we collected the X-ray adsorption near-edge structure (XANES) of Pd at the K edge (Figure 2c). Its Fourier-transformed extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectrum was fitted

**Figure 1.** Structural characterizations of Pt/Ni(OH)2/rGO. a) Schematic illustration of the two-step solution method to prepare Pt/Ni(OH)2/rGO. b) XRD patterns of Ni(OH)2/GO from the first step and Pt/Ni(OH)2/rGO. c) SEM image and d,e) TEM images of Pd/Ni(OH)2/rGO. f) STEM image of Pt/Ni(OH)2/rGO and corresponding EDS maps of g) Ni, h) Pd, i) C, and j) combined Ni and Pd signals of the enclosed square region in (f).

as shown in Figure 2d. Consistent with the XPS result, it was found that Pd in the hybrid was mainly metallic. The lower coordination number (CN = 5.5) relative to the Pd foil standard (CN = 12) indicated that these nanoparticles were very small. In addition, the minor Pd-O contribution was also observed, attesting to surface oxidation and/or the strong interaction with the oxygen functional groups of the rGO support.

We next assessed the electrocatalytic activity of Pd/Ni(OH)2/ rGO toward the EOR in alkaline solution. Its cyclic voltammetry (CV) curve was first measured in N2-saturated 1 m KOH (**Figure 3**a). Current density was normalized to the mass of Pd on the working electrode. The pronounced cathodic wave between −0.6 and 0 V versus the saturated calomel electrode (SCE) was assignable to the electroreduction of PdO to Pd.[4,34] Note that the anodic reverse potential was chosen to be 0.15 V because it was determined to correspond to the formation of a complete PdO monolayer (Figure S2, Supporting Information).[35,36] From the integrated charge associated with the cathodic wave using the equation shown in the inset of Figure 3a, we estimated that the electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) of Pd nanoparticles in the hybrid was 40.3 m2 g−<sup>1</sup>

in 1 m KOH. This value was larger than that of 30 wt% Pd supported on Vulcan carbon black (Pd/C, 28.0 m<sup>2</sup> g−<sup>1</sup> ) or Pd nanoparticles directly grown on graphene (Pd/rGO, 34.5 m<sup>2</sup> g−<sup>1</sup> ) measured under the same condition. It underscored the great electrochemical accessibility of the noble metal in our hybrid electrocatalyst.

The CV curves of Pd electrocatalysts demonstrated drastically different features in 1 m KOH containing 1 m ethanol. As illustrated in Figure 3b, they exhibited heightened anodic peak in the forward scan between −0.2 and 0 V, and a smaller anodic peak in the reverse scan between −0.6 and −0.3 V. The former was typically assigned to the oxidation of ethanol to intermediate products, and the latter was usually believed to result from the further oxidation of intermediate products.[21,37] The mass-specific peak current during the forward scan was a good indicator of catalyst initial activity. Compared to both Pd/C (1050 mA mg−<sup>1</sup> ) and Pd/rGO (1416 mA mg−<sup>1</sup> ), our hybrid electrocatalyst showed the highest peak current of 1546 mA mg−<sup>1</sup> . Moreover, it was widely accepted that the *I*<sup>f</sup> /*I*r ratio (where *I*<sup>f</sup> and *I*r are the mass-specific peak current during the forward and reverse scan, respectively) reflected the resistance of an

**Figure 2.** Spectroscopic characterizations of Pt/Ni(OH)2/rGO. a,b) High-resolution Ni 2p and Pd 3d XPS spectra of Pd/Ni(OH)2/rGO. c) Pd K-edge XANES spectrum of Pd/Ni(OH)2/rGO in comparison to that of standard Pd foil. d) Fourier transform EXAFS spectrum of Pd/Ni(OH)2/rGO at the Pd K-edge and associated fitting curve. The inset shows the fitting results.

electrocatalyst against poisoning.[38–40] Our hybrid electrocatalyst had an *I*<sup>f</sup> /*I*r ratio of ≈1.05, the largest among the three samples under investigation.

In addition to the good EOR activity of Pd/Ni(OH)2/rGO, what really sets it apart from previous Pd-based electrocatalysts is its exceptional operation stability. This was clearly demonstrated in the following two assessments. First, the three different electrocatalysts were compared for their cycling stability. They were continuously cycled over the potential range of −0.9 to 0.2 V at 50 mV s−<sup>1</sup> . The anodic current at −0.2 V during the forward scan was periodically extracted and plotted against the cycle number as depicted in Figure 3c. We can see that the Pd/C benchmark rapidly lost most of its activity after merely 5000 cycles. The cycling stability of Pd/rGO was slightly better, but still suffered from considerable activity decay at the end of 20 000 cycles. In stark contrast, our Pd/Ni(OH)2/rGO exhibited outstanding cycling stability with more than 90% of its initial activity retained after even 40 000 cycles. Second, the three different electrocatalysts were compared for their chronoamperometric (*i* ∼ *t*) stability when biased at −0.2 V. Chronoamperometric stability of most EOR electrocatalysts is much inferior to their corresponding cycling stability because they are more prone to be poisoned by carbonaceous intermediates during continuous EOR electrocatalysis. From our study, Pd/C and Pd/rGO experienced sharp activity decay and lost over 80% of their initial activity within 5000 s—performances were in good agreement with previous Pd-based EOR electrocatalysts.[20,41] Striking stability was observed for Pd/Ni(OH)2/rGO: at the end of 20 000 s, a mass-specific current of 440 mA mg−<sup>1</sup> was still retained (Figure 3d). It is worth highlighting that both the cycling stability and chronoamperometric stability of Pd/ Ni(OH)2/rGO exceeded all existing Pd or Pt-based EOR electrocatalysts by a significant extent (Table S1, Supporting Information).[19,20,42–44] Most previous electrocatalysts had very limited chronoamperometric stability and usually became virtually inactive within 1 h.[18–20] The stability of our hybrid electrocatalyst was approximately one order of magnitude greater than any literature value (Table S1, Supporting Information).

Even more interestingly, the partially deactivated Pd/ Ni(OH)2/rGO could be readily reactivated after the 20 000 s chronoamperometric stability test by switching the electrolyte to clean 1 m KOH and running a few (three to five) quick CV cycles. Such a simple cleaning process was sufficient to effectively remove carbonaceous poisons adsorbed on the Pd surface and fully recover its electrocatalytic activity to the initial value. Reactivated Pd/Ni(OH)2/rGO could then endure another 20 000 s chronoamperometric stability test in fresh 1 m KOH containing 1 m ethanol solution. Figure 3e presents four such consecutive reactivation cycles. More data up to ten cycles (with a total operation time of 200 000 s—two orders magnitude longer than any literature results) were summarized in Figure S3 (Supporting Information). It was conclusive that even after prolonged EOR electrocatalysis, there was no sign of activity loss after the CV reactivation. Note that such durability was still far from the possible limit that our hybrid electrocatalyst could last. We reason that since no EOR electrocatalyst can

www.advmat.de

Figure 3. Electrochemical measurements of Pd/Ni(OH) $_2$ /rGO for EOR electrocatalysis. a) CV curve of Pd/Ni(OH) $_2$ /rGO at 20 mV s $^{-1}$  in N $_2$ -saturated 1 M KOH. The inset shows the equation for the derivation of Pd ECSA. b) CV curves of Pd/Ni(OH) $_2$ /rGO, Pd/rGO, and Pd/C at 50 mV s $^{-1}$  in 1 M KOH with 1 M ethanol. c) Cycling stability of Pd/Ni(OH) $_2$ /rGO, Pd/rGO, and Pd/C. Data plots were constructed by periodically extracting the anodic current at -0.2 V during continuous CV cycling between -0.9 and 0.2 V at 50 mV s $^{-1}$ . d) Chronoamperometric ( $i \sim t$ ) measurements of Pd/Ni(OH) $_2$ /rGO, Pd/rGO, and Pd/C at -0.2 V. e) Long-time durability of Pd/Ni(OH) $_2$ /rGO. The arrows indicate when the catalyst was reactivated and electrolyte was replaced.

be made indefinitely stable at present or in the near future, materials with reasonable operation stability and potential for fast activity recovery via the simplest method are the most feasible choices for practical applications. For real DEFC devices, such reactivation could be arranged during their operation breaks without dissembling cells.

Experimental evidence supporting the great poisoning resistance of Pd/Ni(OH)2/rGO was further gleaned from CO stripping experiments. CO was suggested as the primary surface poison causing catalyst instability, which originated from the C-C bond cleavage on Pd sites in the C1 pathway (Figure 4a).[16,28,45] An ideal EOR catalyst should be capable of quickly scavenging the CO species adsorbed on Pd sites by reacting with OH adsorbed on adjacent non-Pd sites at lower oxidation potentials.<sup>[14]</sup> In Figure 4b,c, the anodic wave of Pd/C and Pd/rGO in the range of approximately -0.35 to -0.15 V in the first cycle was due to the electrooxidation of adsorbed CO to CO<sub>2</sub> on Pd. When the CO stripping experiments were carried out on our hybrid electrocatalyst, a second wave in the range of -0.7 to -0.4 V arose (Figure 4d). We believe that this new wave stemmed from the electrooxidation of CO adsorbed on Pd nanoparticles adjacent to Ni(OH)2. Its appearance at a more negative potential relative to that observed for Pd/C unambiguously attested that Ni(OH)2 weakened the affinity of nearby Pd nanoparticles for CO (Figure 4a). At potentials relevant to EOR electrocatalysis (e.g., approximately at -0.4 to -0.2 V), these Pd nanoparticles were more likely to be free from poisoning, ultimately leading to the observed excellent operation stability.

Furthermore, in situ attenuated total reflection infrared spectroscopy (ATR-IR) measurement was carried out to gain

more insight into the EOR process and better understand the superiority of the hybrid electrocatalyst. The experimental setup is schematically illustrated in Figure 4e. Figure 4f,g shows the ATR-IR spectral results collected from Pd/rGO and Pd/ Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/rGO during a complete CV cycle between -0.9 and 0.2~V at 10 mV s<sup>-1</sup> in 0.1~M KOH and 0.1~M ethanol solution (electrolyte optimized for in situ measurements). Both of them exhibited a pronounced vibration peak at  $v = 1620 \text{ cm}^{-1} \text{ under}$ negative potentials, which were attributable to acetyl intermediate and interfacial H<sub>2</sub>O.<sup>[15,46]</sup> Vibrational peaks observed at medium potentials at v = 1550 and 1416 cm<sup>-1</sup> were contributed by acetate from the C2 reaction pathway.<sup>[16]</sup> Their signals diminished at more positive or negative potential regimes due to acetate desorption from the catalyst surface. Most importantly, the ATR-IR spectra of Pd/rGO featured a vibrational peak at v =1840 cm<sup>-1</sup> for potentials below -0.3 V (Figure 4f). This peak was commonly assigned to bridge-bonded CO on Pd.[15,16,47] Raising the potential led to the oxidative removal of CO and therefore the disappearance of this peak. By contrast, the CO signal was fully absent in the ATR-IR spectra of Pd/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/ rGO over the entire potential range examined (Figure 4g). In conjunction with the above CO stripping experiments, we believed that such an observation reflected that CO was more facilely converted to CO2 on the hybrid electrocatalyst so that there was no obvious CO accumulation on the catalyst surface. Similar results were also garnered from the in situ ATR-IR measurement during chronoamperometry at -0.2 V as summarized in Figure S4 (Supporting Information). CO rapidly accumulated on Pd/rGO during EOR electrocatalysis, whereas  $Pd/Ni(OH)_2/rGO$  appeared to be free of CO poisoning. Our in situ ATR-IR results provided solid spectroscopic support for the

www.advmat.de

Figure 4. Understanding the exceptional promoting effect of  $Ni(OH)_2$ . a) Schematic showing the promoting effect of  $Ni(OH)_2$  on nearby Pd nanocrystals for EOR. CO stripping measurements of b) Pd/C, c) Pd/rGO, and d) Pd/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/rGO at 10 mV s<sup>-1</sup> in 1 m KOH. e) Schematic showing the setup for in situ ATR-IR experiments. ATR-IR spectra of f) Pd/rGO and g) Pd/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/rGO during CV cycling between -0.9 and 0.2 V at 10 mV s<sup>-1</sup> in 0.1 m KOH with 0.1 m ethanol. h) Faradaic efficiency for C1 or C2 reaction pathway estimated based on the IC quantification of reaction products.

poisoning resistance and, thereby, ultrahigh operational stability of our hybrid electrocatalyst.

In addition to the much improved stability, we analyzed the oxidation product to see if the incorporation of Ni(OH)2 also had any significant influence on the reaction selectivity. The electrolyte was collected for Pd/C, Pt/rGO, and Pd/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/ rGO after long-term chronoamperometric studies and subjected to nuclear magnetic resonance (1H NMR) and ion chromatography (IC) analyses. Acetate (from the C2 pathway) and carbonate (from the C1 pathway) were identified to be the main oxidation products (Figure S5, Supporting Information). Since the dissolution of CO2 from the air in KOH would cause severe carbonate contamination even if the electrolyte was vigorously purged with N2 prior to EOR and protected under N2 during EOR, we decided to quantify the reaction selectivity using the amount of acetate measured from IC (Figure S6, Supporting Information). The Faradaic efficiency for acetate was calculated to be 96% on Pd/C, in good agreement with previous results (Figure 4h). [48] The value was lowered slightly to 94% for Pd/rGO and, very remarkably, to 74% for Pd/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/rGO. This implied that the C1 pathway became much more favored on our hybrid electrocatalyst compared to other Pd-based EOR electrocatalysts. Previous studies showed that C-C cleavage could take place at negative potentials, but would be rapidly deactivated by the CO intermediate accumulating at the catalyst surface. [15,49] The enhanced selectivity toward the C1 pathway could therefore be understood as the consequence of facile CO removal from the catalyst surface, eliminating or alleviating the obstruction of complete ethanol oxidation to CO<sub>2</sub> (Figure 4a).

At last, we highlighted that the graphene support was indispensable to the success of our hybrid electrocatalyst. Since  $Ni(OH)_2$  was poorly conductive, directly growing Pd nanocrystals atop  $Ni(OH)_2$  would render Pd electrochemically inaccessible. Graphene nanosheets with some oxygen

functionality provided the desirable conductive and flexible support, which could be properly wet by Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and Pd to achieve their uniform dispersion. The most active Pd nanocrystals were believed to be those directly grown on the graphene support and close to Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> (Figure 4a). In our hybrid electrocatalyst, we believed that a considerable fraction of Pd nanocrystals were within such "sweet zones," therefore rationalizing the observed great electrocatalytic activity and durability. It was worth noting that Du and co-workers recently prepared flower-like Pd grown on Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, and the resultant hybrid electrocatalyst showed very poor EOR durability (most activity lost within 500 s during chronoamperometric study).<sup>[50]</sup> The sharp contrast between our results and their data (despite similar material composition) unambiguously underscored the effectiveness of our material designing strategy.

In summary, we prepared Pd/Ni(OH)2/rGO hybrid electrocatalyst via a two-step solution method. They featured small Pd nanoparticles intimately interfaced with Ni(OH)2 and uniformly supported on rGO. The presence of Ni(OH)2 dramatically promoted the electrocatalytic performance of Pd for the EOR in alkaline solution. It not only improved the Pd mass activity, but also significantly boosted the operational durability. Most strikingly, our hybrid electrocatalyst retained an exceptional mass activity of 440 mA mg<sup>-1</sup> even after 20 000 s chronoamperometric measurement, and it could be fully reactivated in clean KOH through a few CV cycles. Such ultrahigh stability was amazing, and attributed to the synergistic effect between Ni(OH)2 and Pd. Ni(OH)2 provided abundant OH adspecies to facilitate the oxidative removal of carbonaceous poisons on nearby Pd sites. Supporting evidence was collected from CO stripping and in situ ATR-IR experiments showing that CO could be more readily electrooxidized on Pd/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/ rGO and that there was no obvious CO accumulation on its surface during EOR cycling or chronoamperometric study. Finally,

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.advmat.de**

the incorporation of Ni(OH)2 in the hybrid was also found to markedly change the reaction selectivity. The C2 product was lowered from 96% for Pd/C to 74% for Pd/Ni(OH)2/rGO. Our study provides a new strategy in the rational design of hybrid electrocatalysts for the alcohol oxidation reaction.

#### **Experimental Section**

*Preparation of Pd/Ni(OH)2/rGO Hybrid*: GO was first oxidized by the modified Hummers' method.[51] It was then functionalized using diallyldimethylammonium chloride (DMDAAC). To achieve this, 6 mg of GO was dispersed in 10 mL of deionized water to which 160 µL of DMDAAC solution was then added. The dispersion was sonicated for 1 h and continuously stirred for 24 h. Excess DMDAAC was removed by centrifugation at 9000 rpm. The collected solid was washed, subsequently redispersed in 8 mL of DMF, and added with 313 µL of 0.2 m nickel acetate aqueous solution and 200 mL 25 wt% ammonia solution. The dispersion was heated at 85 °C for 12 h to allow the complete hydrolysis of Ni2<sup>+</sup> and formation of Ni(OH)2/GO hybrid. Solid product from this reaction step was collected and washed, redispersed in 8 mL of ethylene glycol and 8 mL of deionized water, and added with 1.2 mL 0.077 m K2PdCl4 EG solution, 0.1 g KOH, and 47 mg of sodium citrate. The dispersion was further subjected to intense microwave heating at 800 W for 2 min to allow the growth of Pd nanocrystals and simultaneous reduction of GO to rGO. The final product was collected by centrifugation at 9000 rpm, repetitively washed, and lyophilized. The relative content of the three components in the hybrids could be tuned by changing the amount of corresponding precursors under otherwise identical conditions. Pd/rGO was also synthesized by directly using DMDAAC-functionalized GO for Pd growth.

*Material Characterizations*: XRD was performed on PANalytical X-ray diffractometer at a scanning rate of 0.05° s−<sup>1</sup> . SEM images were taken from Zeiss scanning electron microscope. TEM and STEM were conducted on FEI Tecnai F20 transmission electron microscope at an acceleration voltage of 200 kV. XPS spectrum was collected on SSI S-Probe XPS Spectrometer and calibrated using the C1s peak. ICP measurements were conducted on Varian Vista MPX. Samples were first calcined in air at 600 °C for 30 min and then digested in concentrated HNO3 and diluted to desired concentrations.

*X-Ray Absorption Spectroscopy Measurements*: Pd K-edge X-ray absorption spectroscopy measurements were carried out using VESPERS (Very Sensitive Elemental and Structural Probe Employing Radiation from a Synchrotron) beamline at the Canadian Light Source in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada.[52,53] The energy scan was achieved by using a double crystal Si(111) monochromator. The sample was placed at 45° with respect to the incoming X-ray beam. Two ionization chambers were employed upstream and downstream of the sample to measure the photon flux of incident and transmitted beams, respectively. The emitted X-ray fluorescence spectrum was recorded by a 13-element Ge detector positioned at 90° to the incoming beam within the horizontal plane. Multiple scans of measurement were performed and then merged to provide a spectrum with better statistics. Data processing and fitting was performed using WinXAS software.[54] XANES spectra were processed by first calibrating the absorption edge energy using a Pd foil reference, then performing background-subtraction using low-order polynomials, and finally normalizing the spectrum to the height of the absorption postedge. For EXAFS analysis, the *k*2-weighted spectra were Fourier-transformed and then fitted using Pd–Pd and Pd–O scattering paths generated using FEFF8.[55] A Pd foil reference spectrum was used in order to determine a reasonable *S*<sup>0</sup> parameter value, which was subsequently used in the fitting of the Pd/Ni(OH)2/rGO data. A single Δ*E*0 parameter was used for both Pd–Pd and Pd–O scattering paths.

*Electrochemical Measurements*: Electrochemical measurements were performed in the standard three-electrode system controlled by a CHI 660 potentiostat. The working electrode was a glassy carbon electrode of 3 mm in diameter. The reference and counter electrodes were an SCE and a graphite rod, respectively. All the potential readings were reported with respect to SCE. To prepare the working electrode, 4 mg of catalyst powders was blended with 6 µL of 5 wt% Nafion solution and dispersed in 500 µL of ethanol and 500 µL of deionized water. This dispersion was vigorously sonicated for 40 min to form a homogeneous ink, 5 µL of which was then dropcast onto the glassy carbon electrode. Prior to any electrochemical measurements, the catalyst was first activated in N2 saturated 1 m KOH by CV cycling in the potential range of approximately −1.0 to 0.2 V at 200 mV s−<sup>1</sup> for ≈50 cycles. The stabilized CV curve was then recorded at 20 mV s−<sup>1</sup> within the same potential range, from which the ECSA of each catalyst was estimated using the equation shown in the inset of Figure 3a. For EOR electrocatalysis, the electrolyte was switched to 1 m KOH with 1 m ethanol. The catalyst was quickly equilibrated in the electrolyte via a few fast CV cycles and then subjected to detailed CV (between approximately −0.9 and 0.2 V at 50 mV s−<sup>1</sup> ) or chronoamperometry measurements (potential fixed at −0.2 V). CO stripping experiments were conducted in 1 m KOH. The electrolyte was first bubbled with 10% CO/N2 while the potential of catalyst was held at −1.0 V for 30 min, during which CO monolayer adsorption was developed on the Pd surface. Unadsorbed CO was then expelled from the electrolyte by bubbling the solution with N2 for 15 min. Immediately afterward, CV cycles were performed with an initial anodic sweep in the potential range of −1.0–0.2 V at 10 mV s−<sup>1</sup> for at least two consecutive cycles.

*In Situ ATR-IR Experiments*: ATR-IR experiment was run on a Thermo Fisher IS50 FTIR spectrometer equipped with an mercuary-cadmiumtelluride (MCT) detector. For this part of study, we slightly modified the formulation of the catalyst ink. 4 mg of catalyst powders was blended with 120 µL of 5 wt% Nafion solution and dispersed in 0.6 mL of ethanol and 0.4 mL of deionized water under vigorous ultrasonication for 30 min. Subsequently, 30 µL of the catalyst ink was dropcast onto the Au film-coated basal plane of a hemicylindrical Si prism that was prepared according to a previous publication.[56] The reference and counter electrodes were SCE reference electrode and a Pt foil, respectively. The electrolyte in use for this part was 0.1 m KOH with 0.1 m ethanol in order to obtain the best spectroscopic results. For the in situ ATR-IR measurements, the reference spectrum was collected at −0.9 V versus SCE, and the sample spectra were collected at different potentials and corrected with respect to the reference spectrum.

*Product Quantification Using Ion Chromatography*: For the product quantification, the catalyst was dropcast onto a carbon paper electrode to achieve a loading of 1 mg cm<sup>−</sup>2. The electrolyte was N2-saturated 0.1 m KOH with 0.1 m ethanol to obtain the best IC responses. After brief catalyst activation, the carbon paper working electrode was subjected to chronoamperometric measurements at −0.2 V for 10 000 s. The acetate concentration in the electrolyte after electrolysis was quantitatively measured using a Dionex ICS-1100 Ion Chromatograph unit (Dionex Corporation) equipped with an AS16 analytical column (3 mm × 50 mm) and an AG16 guard column (3 mm × 50 mm). Next, 2 mL of the electrolyte was extracted, diluted to 50 mL and subjected to IC measurements. The standard curve was prepared by applying standard solutions of known concentration as shown in Figure S6 (Supporting Information).

#### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

#### **Acknowledgements**

W.J.H. and X.-Y.M. contributed equally to this work. Y.L. acknowledges support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (51472173 and 51522208), the Natural Science Foundation of Jiangsu **www.advancedsciencenews.com www.advmat.de**

Province (BK20140302 and SBK2015010320), the Priority Academic Program Development of Jiangsu Higher Education Institutions, Collaborative Innovation Center of Suzhou Nano Science and Technology, and the "111" project. W.-B.C. acknowledges support from the National "973" Program (2015CB932303) and the National Natural Science Foundation of China (21473039). P.Z. thanks NSERC Canada for financial support. The CLS is supported by the Canadian Funding agencies CFI, NSERC, NRC, CIHR, the University of Saskatchewan, the Government of Saskatchewan, and Western Economic Diversification Canada.

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

### **Keywords**

durability, ethanol oxidation reaction, Pd nanocrystals, promoting effect of Ni(OH)2, selectivity

> Received: May 31, 2017 Revised: June 25, 2017 Published online:

- [1] E. Antolini, E. R. Gonzalez, *J. Power Sources* **2010**, *195*, 3431.
- [2] M. Z. F. Kamarudin, S. K. Kamarudin, M. S. Masdar, W. R. W. Daud, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2013**, *38*, 9438.
- [3] A. Brouzgou, A. Podias, P. Tsiakaras, *J. Appl. Electrochem.* **2012**, *43*, 119.
- [4] A. L. Wang, X. J. He, X. F. Lu, H. Xu, Y. X. Tong, G. R. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, 3669.
- [5] L. Zhang, Q. Chang, H. Chen, M. Shao, *Nano Energy* **2016**, *29*, 198.
- [6] J. Wang, N. Cheng, M. N. Banis, B. Xiao, A. Riese, X. Sun, *Electrochim. Acta* **2015**, *185*, 267.
- [7] M. Luo, Y. Sun, L. Wang, S. Guo, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2016**, *1602073*, 1.
- [8] C. Bianchini, P. K. Shen, *Chem. Rev.* **2009**, *109*, 4183.
- [9] M. A. F. Akhairi, S. K. Kamarudin, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2016**, *41*, 4214.
- [10] E. Antolini, *J. Power Sources* **2007**, *170*, 1.
- [11] L. Jiang, L. Colmenares, Z. Jusys, G. Q. Sun, R. J. Behm, *Electrochim. Acta* **2007**, *53*, 377.
- [12] H. Wang, Z. Jusys, R. J. Behm, *J. Power Sources* **2006**, *154*, 351.
- [13] E. A. Monyoncho, S. N. Steinmann, C. Michel, E. A. Baranova, T. K. Woo, P. Sautet, *ACS Catal.* **2016**, *6*, 4894.
- [14] Y. Wang, S. Zou, W.-B. Cai, *Catalysts* **2015**, *5*, 1507.
- [15] Y.-Y. Yang, J. Ren, Q.-X. Li, Z.-Y. Zhou, S.-G. Sun, W.-B. Cai, *ACS Catal.* **2014**, *4*, 798.
- [16] Z.-Y. Zhou, Q. Wang, J.-L. Lin, N. Tian, S.-G. Sun, *Electrochim. Acta* **2010**, *55*, 7995.
- [17] P. E. Tsiakaras, *J. Power Sources* **2007**, *171*, 107.
- [18] W. Du, G. Yang, E. Wong, N. A. Deskins, A. I. Frenkel, D. Su, X. Teng, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2014**, *136*, 10862.
- [19] C. Zhu, Q. Shi, S. Fu, J. Song, H. Xia, D. Du, Y. Lin, *Adv. Mater.* **2016**, *28*, 8779.
- [20] B. Cai, D. Wen, W. Liu, A. K. Herrmann, A. Benad, A. Eychmuller, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, 13101.
- [21] C. W. Xu, H. Wang, P. K. Shen, S. P. Jiang, *Adv. Mater.* **2007**, *19*, 4256.

- [22] R. Subbaraman, D. Tripkovic, D. Strmcnik, K.-C. Chang, M. Uchimura, A. P. Paulikas, V. Stamenkovic, N. M. Markovic, *Science* **2011**, *334*, 1256.
- [23] R. Subbaraman, D. Tripkovic, K. C. Chang, D. Strmcnik, A. P. Paulikas, P. Hirunsit, M. Chan, J. Greeley, V. Stamenkovic, N. M. Markovic, *Nat. Mater.* **2012**, *11*, 550.
- [24] L. Chen, X. Dong, Y. Wang, Y. Xia, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, *7*, 1.
- [25] O. Diaz-Morales, I. Ledezma-Yanez, M. T. M. Koper, F. Calle-Vallejo, *ACS Catal.* **2015**, *5*, 5380.
- [26] N. Danilovic, R. Subbaraman, D. Strmcnik, K. C. Chang, A. P. Paulikas, V. R. Stamenkovic, N. M. Markovic, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2012**, *51*, 12495.
- [27] H. Yin, S. Zhao, K. Zhao, A. Muqsit, H. Tang, L. Chang, H. Zhao, Y. Gao, Z. Tang, *Nat. Commun.* **2015**, *6*, 1.
- [28] A. L. Wang, H. Xu, J. X. Feng, L. X. Ding, Y. X. Tong, G. R. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 10703.
- [29] H. Wang, J. T. Robinson, G. Diankov, H. Dai, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2010**, *132*, 3270.
- [30] S. Guo, D. Wen, Y. Zhai, S. Dong, E. Wang, *ACS Nano* **2010**, *4*, 3959.
- [31] M. C. Biesinger, B. P. Payne, L. W. M. Lau, A. Gerson, R. S. C. Smart, *Surf. Interface Anal.* **2009**, *41*, 324.
- [32] R. K. Singh, R. Rahul, M. Neergat, *Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.* **2013**, *15*, 13044.
- [33] K. Fujiwara, U. Müller, S. E. Pratsinis, *ACS Catal.* **2016**, *6*, 1887.
- [34] W. Du, K. E. Mackenzie, D. F. Milano, N. A. Deskins, D. Su, X. Teng, *ACS Catal.* **2012**, *2*, 287.
- [35] L. Xiao, L. Zhuang, Y. Liu, Juntao, H. c. D. Abrun, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2009**, *131*, 602.
- [36] A. N. Correia, L. H. Mascara, S. A. S. Machado, L. A. Avaca, *Electrochim. Acta* **1997**, *42*, 493.
- [37] A. Chen, P. Holt-Hindle, *Chem. Rev.* **2009**, *110*, 3767.
- [38] K. Kakaei, M. Dorraji, *Electrochim. Acta* **2014**, *143*, 207.
- [39] D. Bin, B. Yang, K. Zhang, C. Wang, J. Wang, J. Zhong, Y. Feng, J. Guo, Y. Du, *Chemistry* **2016**, *22*, 16642.
- [40] S. Fu, C. Zhu, D. Du, Y. Lin, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2015**, *7*, 13842.
- [41] K. Qi, Q. Wang, W. Zheng, W. Zhang, X. Cui, *Nanoscale* **2014**, *6*, 15090.
- [42] F. Wu, D. Zhang, M. Peng, Z. Yu, X. Wang, G. Guo, Y. Sun, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 4952.
- [43] H. Wu, H. Li, Y. Zhai, X. Xu, Y. Jin, *Adv. Mater.* **2012**, *24*, 1594.
- [44] W. Wang, F. Lv, B. Lei, S. Wan, M. Luo, S. Guo, *Adv. Mater.* **2016**, *28*, 10117.
- [45] F. Hu, C. Chen, Z. Wang, G. Wei, P. K. Shen, *Electrochim. Acta* **2006**, *52*, 1087.
- [46] H.-F. Wang, Z.-P. Liu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2008**, *130*, 10996.
- [47] Z.-Y. Zhou, N. Tian, Y.-J. Chen, S.-P. Chen, S.-G. Sun, *J. Electroanal. Chem.* **2004**, *573*, 111.
- [48] H. Wang, Z. Jusys, R. J. Behm, *J. Phys. Chem. B* **2004**, *108*, 19413.
- [49] V. Rao, Hariyanto, C. Cremers, U. Stimming, *Fuel Cells* **2007**, *7*, 417.
- [50] J. Zhong, D. Bin, B. Yan, Y. Feng, K. Zhang, J. Wang, C. Wang, Y. Shiraishi, P. Yang, Y. Du, *RSC Adv.* **2016**, *6*, 72722.
- [51] Y. Liang, Y. Li, H. Wang, J. Zhou, J. Wang, T. Regier, H. Dai, *Nat. Mater.* **2011**, *10*, 780.
- [52] R. Feng, A. Gerson, G. Ice, R. Reininger, B. Yates, S. McIntyre, *AIP Conf. Proc*. **2007**, *879*, 872.
- [53] R. Feng, W. Dolton, R. Igarashi, G. Wright, M. Bradford, S. McIntyre, *AIP Conf. Proc*. **2010**, *1234*, 315.
- [54] T. Ressler, *J. Synchrotron Radiat.* **1998**, *5*, 118.
- [55] A. L. Ankudinov, B. Ravel, J. J. Rehr, S. D. Conradson, *Phys. Rev. B* **1998**, *58*, 7565.
- [56] J. Y. Wang, H. X. Zhang, K. Jiang, W. B. Cai, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2011**, *133*, 14876.