---
source: Li 等 - 2025 - Nanoporous Core–Shell Multifunctional Electrocatalysts Toward Flexible Ethanol Fuel Cells.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 20.947s
generated: 2026-01-09T04:51:46.256798Z
---

# **Nanoporous Core–Shell Multifunctional Electrocatalysts Toward Flexible Ethanol Fuel Cells**

*Jun Li, Jianbo Zhang, Panmei Liu, Hongyan Liang, Yuan Huang, Yongchang Liu, and Zumin Wang\**

**The advancement of flexible direct alcohol fuel cells (DAFCs) is crucial for the promotion and application of the new generation of wearable and flexible electronic products. However, problems such as poor anti-poisoning of catalysts and serious fuel leakage have hindered the development of flexible DAFCs. In this study, a nanoporous gold -loaded PtPdRhCo quaternary core–shell catalyst is successfully prepared via a simple electrodeposition method. Consequently, the quaternary core–shell catalyst exhibits superior mass activities for the ethanol oxidation reaction (25.20 A·mgPt<sup>−</sup>1), methanol oxidation reaction (19.30 A·mgPt<sup>−</sup>1), and oxygen reduction reaction (0.82 A·mgPt<sup>−</sup>1), respectively. On this basis, a flexible direct ethanol fuel cell (DEFC) is assembled with two carbon cloths containing catalysts and sodium polyacrylate-sodium alginate hydrogel electrolyte between the two carbon cloths. Electrochemical tests show that flexible DEFC achieves a stable output potential of 0.55 V and a maximum power density of 17.68 mW·cm<sup>−</sup>2. Overall, this effort provides an important reference for the development of flexible energy devices based on nanoporous metals/alloys.**

# **1. Introduction**

As a promising frontier research field, flexible electronic devices have received more and more attention in recent years due to their outstanding advantages, such as lightweight, portable, flexible, bendable, foldable, and adaptable.[\[1\]](#page-9-0) Since energy devices, as an indispensable part of flexible electronic devices, can provide power to the flexible electronic devices to ensure their normal operation, the development of flexible energy devices with high flexibility, high stretchability, and good biocompatibility is of great significance to the development of flexible electronic devices.[\[1,2\]](#page-9-0) Among various flexible energy devices, flexible fuel cells are promising due to their higher energy density, higher conversion efficiency, and better environmental friendliness than other flexible energy devices such as flexible batteries

J. Li, J. Zhang, P. Liu, H. Liang, Y. Huang, Y. Liu, Z. Wang State Key Laboratory of High Performance Roll Materials and Composite Forming

School of Materials Science and Engineering

Tianjin University Tianjin 300350, China

E-mail: [z.wang@tju.edu.cn](mailto:z.wang@tju.edu.cn)

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202504961>

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202504961**

and supercapacitors.[\[3–5\]](#page-9-0) Especially, compared with the lithium-ion battery, flexible fuel cells solve the problems of low energy density and the necessity of the charging process.[\[3\]](#page-9-0)

Compared with other kinds of flexible fuel cells, the flexible direct alcohol fuel cells (DAFCs) are more promising with the advantages of low toxicity and transportability. However, the development and application of flexible DAFCs still encounter many fatal problems with all components, including catalysts, fuels, electrolytes, and substrates, in which the low activity of catalysts due to fuel poisoning and the low stability of electrolytes in alkaline environments are the major critical issues that need to be solved urgently.[\[3\]](#page-9-0)

It is well-known that the noble-metal catalysts are the most effective catalysts for both anodic (alcohol oxidation reaction, AOR) and cathodic (oxygen reduction reaction, ORR) reactions.[\[6,7\]](#page-9-0) Many researchers have

developed numerous binary/ternary/multi-element noble-metal alloy catalysts with high performance and strong anti-poisoning ability through alloying other oxyphilic metals with Pt or Pd, in which oxyphilic metals can play a key role in modulating the electronic structures of Pt/Pd and improving the anti-poisoning ability.[\[8–13\]](#page-9-0) Rh, as one of the oxyphilic metals, has been reported to be an effective alloying element for Pt/Pd-based AOR and ORR catalysts because of its stronger anti-poisoning ability than Pt and Pd.[\[14,15\]](#page-9-0) For example, Tian et al. found that the introduction of Rh into PtPd alloy could alleviate the energy barrier of C─C cleavage during the ethanol oxidation reaction (EOR).[\[16\]](#page-9-0) In addition, Li et al.[\[17\]](#page-9-0) prepared Rh@Pt core–shell heterostructures with highperformance EOR activity by utilizing the surface stress and the electron-ligand. Furthermore, Wang et al.[\[13\]](#page-9-0) found that Rh on the surface of Pt-based alloy could provide more OH<sup>−</sup> that Pt, thus facilitating the further oxidation of CO produced during the methanol oxidation reaction (MOR) process.

In addition to the influence of high-performance catalysts, electrolytes with excellent physicochemical properties and environmental adaptability provide an important foundation for improving the overall performance of flexible DAFCs. Hydrogels are a class of 3D conductive polymers that can form flexible porous structures by cross-linking polymer macromolecules. Due to their high ionic conductivity and flexibility, hydrogels have been used as solid/quasi-electrolytes for flexible energy

devices.[\[18,19\]](#page-9-0) In addition, it is well-known that the leakage of liquid electrolytes is one of the most serious problems affecting the performance of the conventional DAFCs. Hydrogels can solve the leakage problem of conventional liquid electrolytes by storing the liquid electrolyte in the solid hydrogels. Therefore, the development of flexible DAFCs based on hydrogels is highly desirable.

Currently, only a few studies have focused on hydrogel-based flexible DAFCs. Huang's and Qiu's groups developed flexible DAFCs based on the sodium polyacrylate (PANa) hydrogel, including flexible methanol fuel cells (DMFCs)[\[20,21\]](#page-9-0) and flexible ethanol fuel cells (DEFCs).[\[22–25\]](#page-9-0) As a result, the PANa hydrogel has excellent ionic conductivity in harsh alkaline corrosive media, which is attributed to its excellent water absorption and retention capacity, thus conferring superior performance to flexible DMFCs and DEFCs. In order to improve the storage capacity of methanol, Zhou's group developed a novel gel/sponge composite-based flexible DMFC, which further improved the performance of the flexible DMFC.[\[26\]](#page-9-0) In addition, some other hydrogel-based flexible DAFCs have also been reported.[\[27,28\]](#page-9-0) Although the flexible DAFCs currently under research have made some progress, some problems still exist. On the one hand, the properties of catalysts and PANa hydrogel need to be further improved. On the other hand, the fabrication method of flexible DAFCs needs to be further optimized.

In this study, a flexible DEFC based on nanoporous gold (NPG) film-loaded PtPdRhCo quaternary core–shell (NPG-PtPdRhCo) multifunctional catalysts was successfully fabricated by a simple stepwise electrodeposition method, with PANa hydrogel electrolytes improved by cross-linking reaction with sodium alginate (SA). NPG films were prepared on the surface of Si (100) wafers and carbon clothes by magnetron sputtering using a solidreaction method based on a metal-induced crystallization process (the detailed preparation process can be been in the Supplementary information).[\[29–31\]](#page-9-0) The manufacturing process is as simple as sandwiching the PANa-SA hydrogel electrolyte between two carbon cloths containing the catalysts. By electrochemical tests, the prepared NPG-PtPdRhCo catalyst exhibited superior trifunctional catalytic performances for EOR, MOR, and ORR. In addition, the fabricated flexible DEFC delivered a maximum power density of 17.68 mW·cm<sup>−</sup>2.

### **2. Results and Discussion**

#### **2.1. Microstructural Characterizations**

The NPG-PtPdRhCo core–shell catalyst was prepared on a Si wafer and characterized by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM), as shown in **Figures [1](#page-2-0)** and S1 (Supporting Information). Notably, the NPG-PtPdRhCo core– shell catalyst was prepared by magnetron sputtering and stepwise electrodeposition (Figure [1a\)](#page-2-0). As can be seen from the low magnification TEM images (Figure [1b\)](#page-2-0), numerous nanoparticles with an average size of 2–4 nm were uniformly distributed on the ligaments of the NPG substrate. In the high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) images (Figure [1c–e\)](#page-2-0), the lattice spacings were measured to be 0.212 and 0.195 nm, which were corresponding to the PtPd (111) and PtPd (200) crystal planes, respectively. Several structural defects were observed, including stepped surfaces and stacking faults (SF). To further analyze the atomic structure of NPG-PtPdRhCo, the aberration-corrected HAADF-STEM images were acquired. As shown in Figure [1f,g,](#page-2-0) there is a boundary between the NPG substrate and the nanoparticles, which is proved by the fast Fourier transform (FFT) patterns and the inverse FFT patterns (1 and 2). The lattice spacings were measured to be 0.235 and 0.213 nm (the intensity profile), corresponding to the Au (111) and PtPdRhCo (111) crystal planes. In addition, the lattice spacings of other PtPdRhCo nanoparticles were also measured (Figure [1h,i\)](#page-2-0), and the results were similar to those of Figure [1f,g.](#page-2-0) Notably, the calculated lattice spacings are smaller than those of Pt (111) (0.226 nm), Pd (111) (0.225 nm), and Rh (111) (0.220 nm), indicating the formation of the PtPdRhCo alloy. The alloy was also evidenced by the X-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern, where the (111) peaks were located between the Pt (111), Pd (111), and Rh (111) crystal planes (Figure S1, Supporting Information). More importantly, the (111) peaks of NPG-PtPdRhCo and NPG-PtPdRh negatively shift compared with those of NPG-PdRh. As a result, we calculated the lattice spacings of (111) planes for NPG-PdRh, NPG-PtPdRh, and NPG-PtPdRhCo. As shown in Table S1 (Supporting Information), the calculated lattice spacing of NPG-PtPdRhCo is 0.225 nm, which is larger than that of NPG-PdRh (0.223 nm). The lattice expansion can modulate the electronic structures of Pt and Pd, which is beneficial for the adsorption/desorption of reaction intermediates.[\[32\]](#page-9-0)

The HAADF-STEM EDS mapping results (Figure [1j\)](#page-2-0) show typical elemental distribution features, i.e., Pd and Rh are mainly distributed on the surface of the ligaments, whereas Pt and Co are mainly distributed in the interior of the ligaments, indicating the successful preparation of the core–shell NPG-PtPdRhCo. Further evidence for the formation of the core–shell NPG-PtPdRhCo is provided by the EDS line scan results in Figure S2 (Supporting Information). The atomic radio of Pt/Pd/Rh/Co determined by TEM-EDS is 18.7/53.5/19.6/8.2, which is in well agreement with the results of inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectroscopy (Figure [1k;](#page-2-0) Table S2, Supporting Information). By comparison, the NPG-PtRh, NPG-PdRh, and NPG-PtPdRh were also characterized by TEM, we also characterized the NPG-PtRh, NPG-PdRh, and NPG-PtPdRh by TEM, as shown in the Figures S3–S6 (Supporting Information). By analyzing the results of the EDS spectra, in addition to NPG-PdRh, NPG-PtRh, and NPG-PtPdRh also exhibit the identical core–shell characteristics as NPG-PtPdRhCo.

Subsequently, the electronic and local coordination structures of the four catalysts were analyzed by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) measurements. In the full XPS spectra (**Figure 2**[a\)](#page-3-0), the peaks of Pt, Pd, and Rh can be identified, and the Pd content on the surface is significantly higher than that of Pt, which is consistent with the results of STEM EDS mapping and line-scan (Figure [1j;](#page-2-0) Figure S2, Supporting Information). Typically, the Pt 4f, Pd 3d, and Rh 3d spectra mainly show metallic states (Figure [2b–d\)](#page-3-0). Notably, the Pt 4f and Rh 3d spectra of NPG-PtPdRhCo show a negative shift compared to NPG-PtRh and NPG-PtPdRh, but the Pd 3d spectrum of NPG-PtPdRhCo undergoes a positive shift relative to NPG-PtRh and NPG-PtPdRh. The XPS results indicate that electrons were transferred from Pd to Pt and Rh in NPG-PtPdRhCo. In addition, the Co 2p spectrum of NPG-PtPdRhCo is shown in Figure S7 (Supporting Information), where the signals of the Co

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** The microstructure characterization of the NPG-PtPdRhCo core–shell catalyst: a) Schematic illustration of the preparation process of NPG-PtPdRhCo, b) Low-magnification TEM image. c–e) High-resolution TEM (HRTEM) images. f–i) High-resolution HAADF-STEM images, corresponding FFT patterns and IFFT patterns, and the intensity profiles of lattice spacings. j) HAADF-STEM image and corresponding EDS mapping. k) STEM-EDS spectrum.

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** Electronic structure analyses of NPG-PtRh, NPG-PdRh, NPG-PtPdRh, and NPG-PtPdRhCo catalysts: a) XPS full survey spectra of NPG-PtRh, NPG-PdRh, NPG-PtPdRh, and NPG-PtPdRhCo catalysts. b) XPS Pt 4f spectra of NPG-PtRh, NPG-PtPdRh, and NPG-PtPdRhCo catalysts. c) XPS Pd 3d spectra of NPG-PdRh, NPG-PtPdRh, and NPG-PtPdRhCo catalysts. d) XPS Rh 3d spectra of NPG-PtRh, NPG-PtPdRh, and NPG-PtPdRhCo catalysts. e) and f Normalized Pt *L*3-edge XANES and Fourier transformed EXAFS spectra of Pt foil, PtO2, NPG-PtRh, NPG-PtPdRh, and NPG-PtPdRhCo.

2p spectra are very weak, implying that the Co content on the surface of NPG-PtPdRhCo is very low.

As shown in the normalized Pt *L*3-edge near edge structure (XANES) spectra (Figure 2e), the adsorption energies of Pt in NPG-PtRh, NPG-PtPdRh, and NPG-PtPdRhCo are similar to that of Pt foil, which also demonstrates the metallic state of Pt in the catalysts. Meanwhile, in the enlarged spectra (the insert in Figure 2e), the XANES spectra of NPG-PtPdRhCo are shifted toward higher energy values compared with that of the Pt foil, suggesting that there are strong interactions between Pt and other metals in NPG-PtPdRhCo. Subsequently, the local coordination structures of Pt in NPG-PtRh, NPG-PtPdRh, and NPG-PtPdRhCo were further analyzed by extended X-ray absorption fine structure spectroscopy (EXAFS), as shown in Figure 2f. Compared with the main peak of Pt foil (2.53 Å), the main peaks of NPG-PtRh, NPG-PtPdRh, and NPG-PtPdRhCo are located at a lower position, indicating lower Pt-M (metal, M = Pt/Pd/Rh/Co) bond lengths and higher compressive strains in NPG-PtRh, NPG-PtPdRh, and NPG-PtPdRhCo. The wavelet transform analysis in Figure S8 (Supporting Information) shows that the peak strength of NPG-PtPdRhCo (7.0 Å) is lower than that of Pt foil (11.2 Å). In addition, the Pt-O contour is hardly visible in NPG-PtPdRhCo, which confirms that the Pt in NPG-PtPdRhCo exists in the metallic state. All the XAFS and XPS results demonstrate the strong electronic interactions between Pt and other metals in NPG-PtPdRhCo.

#### **2.2. Electrocatalytic Properties of Catalysts**

In order to apply the prepared NPG-PtPdRhCo catalyst to flexible DEFC, the electrocatalytic performances of eEOR and MOR in 0.5 m KOH + 0.5 m C2H5OH/CH3OH were first evaluated. As shown in the cyclic voltammetry (CV) curves (**Figure 3**[a\)](#page-4-0), the hydrogen adsorption/desorption peaks and the reduction peaks of the Pt/Pd oxides can be seen. The electrochemically active surface areas (ECSAs) are determined by integrating the areas of the reduction peaks of Pt/Pd oxides. The results reflect that the NPG-PtPdRhCo has the largest ECSA (48.5 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>−</sup>1). Following this, the EOR and MOR activities in alkaline solution were evaluated (Figure [3b,c\)](#page-4-0). First, we evaluated the EOR and MOR reaction kinetics by comparing the onset potential (Figure S9a,b, Supporting Information), impedance (Figure S9c; Table S3, Supporting Information), and Tafel slope (Figure S9d,e; Table S4, Supporting Information). The above test results all indicate that NPG-PtPdRhCo achieves the fastest EOR and MOR reaction kinetics. To quantitatively analyze the performance of EOR and MOR, mass activities (MAs) and activities (SAs) were calculated.

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** Electrocatalytic performances for EOR and MOR: a) CV curves recorded in a N2-saturated 0.5 m KOH solution. b) and c) CV curves recorded in a N2-saturated 0.5 m KOH containing 0.5 m C2H5OH/CH3OH solution. d) EOR and MOR mass activities. e) CA curves recorded at 0.8 V versus RHE in a 0.5 m KOH and 0.5 m C2H5OH solution. f) EOR CV durability tests of NPG-PtPdRhCo catalyst.

The MAs of the NPG-PtPdRhCo were 25.2 and 19.3 A·mgPt<sup>−</sup>1, respectively, which were 14.4 and 9.8 times higher than that of the NPG-PdRh catalyst (Figure 3d; Table S4, Supporting Information). In addition, the SAs of NPG-PtPdRhCo were 120.9 and 92.5 mA·cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for EOR and MOR, respectively, which were also higher than those of other catalysts (Figure S10, Supporting Information). By comparison, MOR and EOR activities of the NPG-PtPdRhCo catalyst were also superior to many reported Pt/Pdbased EOR and MOR catalysts, as shown in Tables S5 and S6 (Supporting Information).

The stability of the different catalysts was evaluated by chronoamperometric (*i*–*t*) and CV cycle tests. As shown in Figure 3e, the NPG-PtPdRhCo still shows a high current density in EOR after a conservative 10 h of testing, whereas the current densities of the other three catalysts have dropped to near 0 after tests for 12 000 s. Moreover, the results for MOR are similar to that for EOR (Figure S11, Supporting Information). Furthermore, after CV test for 2000 cycles, the EOR and MOR activities of NPG-PtPdRhCo are still better maintained than the other catalysts (Figure 3f; Figures S12 and S13, Supporting Information). The TEM images after the EOR stability tests indicate that the original structure of NPG-PtPdRhCo is better maintained than that of NPG-PtRh. Both stability tests and TEM images demonstrate the excellent stability of NPG-PtPdRhCo for both EOR and MOR (Figures S14 and S15, Supporting Information).

To further explore the intrinsic mechanism of EOR, the 1H nuclear magnetic resonance (1H NMR) and in situ Fouriertransform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) tests were performed. As shown in the 1H NMR spectra (**Figure 4**[a\)](#page-5-0), there are two distinct ethanol peaks at 1 and 3.5 ppm. Moreover, the peaks located at 1.6 and 8.4 ppm belong to CH3COO<sup>−</sup> (C2 product) and CO3 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> (C1 product), respectively, which demonstrate that the EOR processes of all catalysts are carried out via the C1 and C2 pathways.[\[33\]](#page-9-0) More importantly, the intensity of CO3 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> peak in NPG-PtPdRhCo is higher than those of the other three catalysts, indicating higher C1 selectivity. In the in situ FTIR spectra (Figure [4b–d\)](#page-5-0), the vibration peak at 1085 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> is attributed to the C-O stretching vibration of CH3CH2OH, indicating the successful adsorption of ethanol on the surface of the catalyst.[\[33\]](#page-9-0) Impressively, the intensity of the CO2 vibration peak (2340 cm<sup>−</sup>1) in the NPG-PtPdRhCo is higher than those in the NPG-PtRh and NPG-PtPdRh catalysts, which is consistent with the 1H NMR result. In addition, the CH3COO<sup>−</sup> vibrational peak (1405 cm<sup>−</sup>1) is observed in all spectra,[\[34,35\]](#page-9-0) but the peak intensity of the CH3COO<sup>−</sup> peak is evidently weaker than that of the CO2 peak in NPG-PtPdRhCo, which indicates the strong cleavage ability of C─C bonds. The 1H NMR and in situ FTIR results indicate the main EOR reaction pathway of the NPG-PtPdRhCo is the C1 pathway (Figure [4e\)](#page-5-0).

As an important cathodic reaction for flexible DAFCs, the performance of the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) was also tested. As shown in the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves (**Figure 5**[a\)](#page-6-0), the half-wave potential of NPG-PtPdRhCo is 0.949 V (vs RHE), which is higher than those of others (Figure [5b;](#page-6-0) Table S5, Supporting Information). Tafel slopes were also investigated to evaluate the reaction kinetics of ORR. As shown in Figure [5c,](#page-6-0)

<span id="page-5-0"></span>Figure 4. Reaction pathway analyses of the catalysts for EOR: a) <sup>1</sup>H NMR results. b-d) electrochemical in situ FTIR results of (b) NPG-PtRh, (c) NPG-PtPdRh, and (d) NPG-PtPdRhCo, respectively. e) Schematic illustration of EOR mechanism (C1 pathway) on the surface of NPG-PtPdRhCo.

the Tafel slope of NPG-PtPdRhCo is smaller than those of NPG-PtPdRh, NPG-PdRh, and NPG-PtRh, suggesting faster reaction kinetics. Specific and mass activities were evaluated by normalizing the kinetic currents to ECSA and Pd (or Pt) loading, respectively, at a voltage of 0.90 V (vs RHE). Consequently, NPG-PtPdRhCo exhibits the highest specific activity (3.98 mA·cm<sup>-2</sup>) and mass activity (0.82  $A \cdot mg_{Pt/Pd}^{-1}$ ) (Figure 5d; Table S7, Supporting Information), which also outperforms many other reported Pt/Pd-based ORR catalysts (Table S8, Supporting Information).

In addition, the number of electron transfers (n) was calculated using the K-L equation to evaluate the ORR pathway. According to the LSV curves at different rotation rates (Figure 5e; Figure S16a-c, Supporting Information), the n values of NPG-PtPdRhCo, NPG-PtPdRh, NPG-PdRh, and NPG-PtRh are 3.87, 3.89, 4.12, and 3.80, respectively (Figure 5f; Figure S16d-f, Supporting Information), indicating that all catalysts display a fourelectron pathway during the ORR process.

#### 2.3. Theorical Calculations

In order to gain insight into the excellent catalytic performance of the NPG-PtPdRhCo catalyst, density functional theory (DFT) calculations for EOR were performed. Based on the results of structural characterization, four structural models

(PtRh111, PdRh111, PtPdRh111, and PtPdRhCo111) were developed, which were optimized as shown in Figure S17 (Supporting Information). The partial projected density of states (PDOSs) of each element in the four catalysts were calculated to analyze their electronic structures. As shown in Figures 6a and S18 (Supporting Information), there is an obvious electronic coupling between Pt, Pd, Rh, and Co, which proves the existence of strong electronic interactions in NPG-PtPdRhCo. The Rh 4d near the Fermi level can effectively enhance the EOR activity. The broad band of Co 4p orbit across Pt 5d, Pd 4d, and Rh 4d orbits can effectively tune the electronic structure of Pt and Pd and accelerate the electronic transfer, indicating that the introduction of Co can further enhance the EOR activity. Additionally, the *d*-band centers of the surface Pt and Pd active sites on the four surface models were further calculated. As shown in Figure 6b,c, the dband center of Pd 4d for NPG-PtPdRhCo is -2.25 eV, which is negatively shifted by 0.17 and 0.27 eV as compared with those of NPG-PtPdRh (-2.08 eV) and NPG-PdRh (-1.98 eV), respectively. The downshift of the *d*-band center will reduce the adsorption energy of the intermediate on the surface of catalysts and weaken the poisoning ability of poisonous absorbate (eg. CO). Thus, the catalytic performance is improved (see Figure 6a-c).

The optimized adsorption structures of different intermediates on the surfaces of PtRh(111), PdRh(111), PtPdRh(111), and PtPdRhCo(111) are shown in Figures \$19-\$26 (Supporting Information). To directly assess the adsorption capacities of the key

<span id="page-6-0"></span>Figure 5. Electrocatalytic performances for ORR: a) LSV curves recorded in a O<sub>2</sub>-saturated 0.1 M KOH solution. b) Onset potential (E<sub>onset</sub>) and half-wave potential  $(E_{1/2})$ . c) Tafel curves. d) Mass and specific activities calculated at 0.9 V versus RHE. e) and f) LSV curves of NPG-PtPdRhCo at different rotation speeds and corresponding K-L plots.

intermediates (including CO\* and OH\*), the adsorption energies of CO\* and OH\* on the surfaces of the four models were calculated.[36] As shown in Figure 6d, among the four adsorption models, the adsorption energy of OH\* on the PtPdRhCo(111) surface is the largest (-3.89 eV), indicating that it has the strongest adsorption capacity for OH\*. On the contrary, the adsorption energy of CO\* is the smallest (-0.33 eV), indicating its weakest adsorption capacity for CO\*. Meanwhile, the adsorption energy of CO\* on the surface of PtPdRhCo(111) is much smaller than that of OH\*, which facilitates the desorption and elimination of CO\* on the surface, proving that the C1 pathway of the EOR on the surface of PtPdRhCo(111) is more advantageous than that of the C2 pathway.[37] In short, the superior adsorption capacity of OH\* on the surface of PtPdRhCo(111) can be attributed to the optimized electronic structure and the synergistic effect of different metals.

Subsequently, the variations of the relative free energy via C1 and C2 pathways were calculated on the four surface models (Figure 6e; Figure S27, Supporting Information). First, the C1 and C2 pathways were prioritized by calculating the energy barrier from CH<sub>3</sub>CO\* to CH<sub>2</sub>CO\* or CH<sub>3</sub>COOH\*, respectively.[38] On the PtPdRhCo(111) surface, the energy barrier from CH<sub>3</sub>CO\* to CH<sub>2</sub>CO\* is 0.27 eV, which is lower than that on the PtPdRh(111) surface (1.28 eV), PdRh(111) surface (2.81 eV), and PtRh(111) surface (1.91 eV). Apparently, the reaction from CH<sub>3</sub>CO\* to CH<sub>2</sub>CO\* occurs most readily on the PtPdRhCo(111) surface. On the contrary, the oxidation from CH<sub>3</sub>CO\* to CH<sub>3</sub>COOH\* on the PtPdRhCo(111) and PtPdRh (111) surfaces obtains higher energies (0.47 and 1.72 eV) than that from CH<sub>3</sub>CO\* to CH<sub>2</sub>CO\*, revealing that the C1 pathway of EOR is thermodynamically preferred on the PtPdRhCo(111) and PtPdRh (111) surfaces. In the C1 pathway, the most important step relative to the evolution from CH<sub>2</sub>CO\* into CO\* is C—C bond cleavage. [39] Among the four surface models, the PtPdRhCo(111) surface required the smallest energy (1.81 eV) for the conversion from CH<sub>2</sub>CO\* to CO\* (Figure 6f), which confirms its high C1 selectivity. In addition, the anti-CO poisoning ability was assessed by calculating the free energy required for the conversion of CO<sup>\*</sup> to COOH\*. As a result, the PtPdRhCo(111) surface required the lowest energy (0.2 eV) of all the surfaces (Figure S28, Supporting Information), indicating the easiest removal of CO\* on the PtPdRhCo(111) surface. All calculations demonstrate that NPG-PtPdRhCo has higher C1 selectivity and resistance to CO poisoning for EOR, which endows its superior stability.

#### 2.4. Assembly and Testing of Flexible DEFC

Benefiting from the superior EOR and ORR performances, sandwich-type flexible DEFC was assembled by using carbon cloth-loaded NPG-PtPdRhCo as the cathode and anode (Figure S29, Supporting Information), and PANa-SA hydrogel as the electrolyte (see Methods for details of fabrication). The schematic diagram of the assembled flexible DEFC is shown in Figure 7a. First, the structure of the PANa-SA hydrogel was characterized by SEM, XRD, and FTIR (Figure \$30a-e, Supporting

<span id="page-7-0"></span>Figure 6. DFT calculation results: a) PDOS plots of NPG-PtPdRhCo. b) and c) Site-dependent PDOS plots of Pt 5d and Pd 5d in the four catalysts. d) Adsorption energy of CO\* and OH\* on the four catalysts. e) Free energy diagram of EOR C1 pathway in the four catalysts. f) Change of free energy from CH<sub>2</sub>CO\* to CO\* on the four catalysts.

<span id="page-8-0"></span>Figure 7. Characterizations and tests of the flexible DEFC: a) Schematic of the flexible DEFC. b) OCP plot. c) polarization curves. d) Voltage-time plot for evaluating long-term stability. e) Rate performance at different current densities from 0.1 to 1 mA·cm<sup>-2</sup>.

Information). SEM images show that the PANa-SA hydrogel exhibits a porous structure, which facilitates electrolyte storage and ion diffusion, thus improving the ion conductivity and water uptake. [40] XRD patterns indicate that the crystallinity of PANa-SA decreases after the addition of SA, which is conducive to the improvement of ionic conductivity.[41] In the FTIR spectra, the broad band between 3000 and 3700 cm<sup>-1</sup> are attributed to the O—H stretching vibration peaks of the H<sub>2</sub>O molecule.<sup>[42]</sup> Obviously, the width and height of the O-H stretching vibration speak of the PANa-SA hydrogel is larger than those of PANa-SA, which proves its stronger water uptake capacity. In addition, several absorption bands can be found at 1650 cm<sup>-1</sup> (C-O stretching vibration), 1534 cm<sup>-1</sup> (C=C stretching vibration) and 1400 cm<sup>-1</sup> (C-H bending vibration), which are the characteristic absorption bands of PANa.[40]

Subsequently, the ion conductivity, water uptake and retention capacity of PANa-SA and PANa hydrogels were tested. The ion conductivities were measured by the electrochemical impedance spectroscopy, with a calculated ionic conductivity of 69.4 and 29.3 mS·cm<sup>-1</sup> for PANa-SA and PANa, respectively, as shown in Figure \$31 (Supporting Information). In addition, after soaking the PANa-SA hydrogel in pure water for 48 h, the water absorption of the hydrogel was 1000 wt.%, which is higher than that of PANa (813 wt.%). After exposing the PANa-SA hydrogel to air (25 °C) for 15 days, the water retention of PANa-SA was 78.3% (Figure \$30f,g, Supporting Information). Consequently, PANaSA has strong ionic conductivity, water absorption, and water retention capacity.

As an electrolyte for flexible fuel cells, the mechanical properties of hydrogels are also important indexes for practical applications. By performing manual tests under different deformation conditions, it was demonstrated that the hydrogel has a strong resistance to deformation (Figure \$32a, Supporting Information). In order to accurately assess the mechanical properties of PANa-SA, the tensile tests were conducted. The maximum deformation elongation and stress of PANa-SA reach up to 80.8 kPa and 358.8%, respectively (Figure S32b,c, Supporting Information), which is very competitive with materials reported in the literature.[38]

Finally, the performance of flexible DEFC based on PANa-SA hydrogel and NPG-PtPdRhCo catalysts was tested. The open circuit voltages (OCP) of the flexible DEFC can be maintained at 0.55 V (Figure 7b), and the maximum output power density can reach up to 17.68 mW·cm<sup>-2</sup> (Figure 7c), which are superior to most of the flexible fuel cells reported so far (Table S9, Supporting Information). Apart from OCP and power density, as another important index for the application of the flexible DEFC, the longterm stability of the flexible DEFC was tested by voltage-time test at a current density of 0.1 mA·cm<sup>-2</sup> (Figur 7d). The test results indicate that the voltage of the flexible DEFC only drops by  $\approx$ 5% after a stability test for 90 h, suggesting its superior stability. In addition, the rate performance of the flexible DEFC was

<span id="page-9-0"></span>tested at different current densities, including 0.1, 0.25, 0.5, and 1 mA·cm<sup>−</sup>2. As shown in Figure [7e,](#page-8-0) the voltage of flexible DEFC keeps stable at different applied current densities. The voltage quickly decreases with increasing current density, with a very short response time. The results indicate that the flexible DEFC has a great rate performance, and the assembled flexible DEFC can indeed work under different load conditions.

## **3. Conclusion**

In conclusion, the NPG-PtPdRhCo catalyst has been successfully prepared by magnetron sputtering and stepwise electrodeposition. The prepared NPG-PtPdRhCo catalyst exhibits superior EOR, MOR, and ORR mass activities (25.2, 19.3, 0.82 A·mgPt/Pd<sup>−</sup>1), which have exceeded many reported Pd-based/Ptbased catalysts. In situ FTIR experiments and DFT calculations elucidate that the superior performance of NPG-PtPdRhCo catalyst stems from high C1 selectivity and superior anti-CO poisoning ability. Based on the NPG-PtPdRhCo catalyst and PANa-SA hydrogel electrolyte, the assembled flexible DEFC achieves a high power density (17.68 mW·cm<sup>−</sup>2) and a stable output potential (0.55 V), which has exceeded many reported flexible direct alcohol fuel cells. We believe that this work can provide an effective approach for promoting the applications of nanoporous metal-based catalysts on the flexible fuel cells.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

### **Acknowledgements**

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Nos. 51971153 and 52471182).

### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

## **Keywords**

alcohol oxidation, core–shell, flexible ethanol fuel cell, hydrogel, nanoporous

> Received: April 23, 2025 Revised: June 20, 2025 Published online: July 15, 2025

[1] L. Hu, P. L. Chee, S. Sugiarto, Y. Yu, C. Shi, R. Yan, Z. Yao, X. Shi, J. Zhi, D. Kai, H. D. Yu, W. Huang, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2205326.

- [2] P. Wang, M. Hu, H. Wang, Z. Chen, Y. Feng, J. Wang, W. Ling, Y. Huang, *Adv. Sci.* **2020**, *7*, 2001116.
- [3] J. Wang, N. He, J. Fei, Z. Ma, Z. Ji, Z. Chen, N. Nie, Y. Huang, *J. Power Sources* **2022**, *551*, 232190.
- [4] Y. Yang, X. Zhu, Q. Wang, D. Ye, R. Chen, Q. Liao, *Appl. Therm. Eng.* **2022**, *203*, 117937.
- [5] X. Fan, H. Wang, X. Liu, J. Liu, N. Zhao, C. Zhong, W. Hu, J. Lu, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2209290.
- [6] W. Du, W. Guo, C. Zhu, W. Zhang, G. Li, H. Zhao, R. Chen, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2025**, 2424532.
- [7] L. Fu, H. N. Nam, J. Zhou, Y. Kang, K. Wang, Z. Zhou, Y. Zhao, L. Zhu, R. Nandan, M. Eguchi, Q. M. Phung, T. Yokoshima, K. Wu, Y. Yamauchi, *ACS Nano* **2024**, *18*, 27617.
- [8] X. Wang, J. Feng, L. Zhang, X. Luo, Q. Zhang, A. Wang, *Electrochim. Acta* **2019**, *321*, 134660.
- [9] X. Lao, X. Liao, C. Chen, J. Wang, L. Yang, Z. Li, J. W. Ma, A. Fu, H. Gao, P. Guo, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202302640.
- [10] X. Li, C. Zhang, C. Du, Z. Zhuang, F. Zheng, P. Li, Z. Zhang, W. Chen, *Sci. China Chem.* **2019**, *62*, 378.
- [11] M. Li, C. Huang, H. Yang, Y. Wang, X. Song, T. Cheng, J. Jiang, Y. Lu, M. Liu, Q. Yuan, Z. Ye, Z. Hu, H. Huang, *ACS Nano* **2023**, *17*, 13659.
- [12] Y. Ju, A. Zhang, Z. Xu, Y. Liu, X. Zhu, P. Zhu, L. Zhou, X. Yuan, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *473*, 145347.
- [13] W. Wang, X. Chen, X. Zhang, J. Ye, F. Xue, C. Zhen, X. Liao, H. Li, P. Li, M. Liu, Q. Kuang, Z. Xie, S. Xie, *Nano Energy* **2020**, *71*, 104623.
- [14] B. Miao, B. Sun, T. Wang, F. Shi, P. Chen, P. Jin, D. Li, F. Li, Y. Chen, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ.* **2023**, *337*, 122967.
- [15] W. Zhu, J. Ke, S. Wang, J. Ren, H. Wang, Z. Zhou, R. Si, Y. Zhang, C. Yan, *ACS Catal.* **2015**, *5*, 1995.
- [16] H. Tian, R. Zhu, P. Deng, J. Li, W. Huang, Q. Chen, Y. Q. Su, C. Jia, Z. Liu, Y. Shen, X. Tian, *Small* **2022**, *18*, 2203506.
- [17] P. Li, K. Liu, J. Ye, F. Xue, Y. Cheng, Z. Lyu, X. Liao, W. Wang, Q. Zhang, X. Chen, M. Liu, S. Xie, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 17987.
- [18] F. Mahdavian, A. Allahbakhsh, A. R. Bahramian, D. Rodrigue, M. K. Tiwari, *Adv. Mater. Technol.* **2023**, *8*, 2202199.
- [19] W. Li, F. Guan, J. Wei, J. Yang, P. Wei, K. Zhang, S. Chen, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *477*, 146969.
- [20] H. Lei, M. Cui, J. Cao, K. Li, Z. Chen, L. Sun, Y. Huang, *Small* **2023**, 2309068.
- [21] H. Lei, M. Cui, W. Li, K. Li, Y. Huang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *469*, 143873.
- [22] J. Wang, Z. Pei, J. Liu, M. Hu, Y. Feng, P. Wang, H. Wang, N. Nie, Y. Wang, C. Zhi, Y. Huang, *Nano Energy* **2019**, *65*, 104052.
- [23] J. Gao, X. Zhou, Y. Wang, Y. Chen, Z. Xu, Y. Qiu, Q. Yuan, X. Lin, H. J. Qiu, *Small* **2022**, *18*, 2202071.
- [24] S. Li, J. Wang, X. Lin, G. Xie, Y. Huang, X. Liu, H. J. Qiu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2007129.
- [25] T. Jiang, J. Gao, Z. Jin, K. Hu, Q. Yuan, H. Qiu, *Mater. Today Energy* **2021**, *21*, 100835.
- [26] S. Zou, Y. Li, H. Jin, F. Ning, P. Xu, Q. Wen, S. Pan, X. Dan, W. Li, X. Zhou, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2103178.
- [27] X. Li, T. Chao, Y. Duan, Y. Qu, Y. Liu, Q. Tan, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2021**, *9*, 15138.
- [28] Y. Yang, K. Xing, M. Yan, X. Zhu, D. Ye, R. Chen, Q. Liao, *Energy* **2023**, *265*, 126166.
- [29] Z. Wang, L. Gu, F. Phillipp, J. Y. Wang, L. P. H. Jeurgens, E. J. Mittemeijer, *Adv. Mater.* **2011**, *23*, 854.
- [30] Z. Wang, L. Gu, L. P. H. Jeurgens, F. Phillipp, E. J. Mittemeijer, *Nano Lett.* **2012**, *12*, 6126.
- [31] J. Li, J. Zhang, Z. Mou, Q. Wan, Y. Huang, Z. Wang, *J. Alloy. Compd.* **2024**, *1008*, 176694.
- [32] Q. Wang, S. Chen, H. Lan, P. Li, X. Ping, S. Ibraheem, D. Long, Y. Duan, Z. Wei, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 18143.
- [33] J. Zhang, Y. Chen, X. Zhang, X. Xu, X. Ma, Y. Fan, C. Zhao, H. Xiao, M. Zhao, T. Hu, B. Lv, E. Luo, J. Jia, *Mater. Chem. Front.* **2024**, *8*, 2578.

<span id="page-10-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

16136829, 2025, 36, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202504961 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [08/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [34] L. Ji, H. Che, N. Qian, J. Li, S. Luo, X. Li, X. Wu, Q. Xu, X. Gong, X. Cui, H. Zhang, D. Yang, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ.* **2023**, *328*, 122521.
- [35] X. Huang, J. Feng, S. Hu, B. Xu, M. Hao, X. Liu, Y. Wen, D. Su, Y. Ji, Y. Li, Y. Li, Y. Huang, T. S. Chan, Z. Hu, N. Tian, Q. Shao, X. Huang, *Nat. Nanotechnol.* **2024**, *19*, 1306.
- [36] J. Zhang, S. Lu, Y. Xiang, S. P. Jiang, *ChemSusChem* **2020**, *13*, 2484.
- [37] Y. Lv, P. Liu, R. Xue, Q. Guo, J. Ye, D. Gao, G. Jiang, S. Zhao, L. Xie, Y. Ren, P. Zhang, Y. Wang, Y. Qin, *Adv. Sci.* **2024**, *11*, 2309813.
- [38] B. Sun, W. Zhong, X. Ai, C. Zhang, F. Li, Y. Chen, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2024**, *17*, 2219.
- [39] Y. Qin, H. Huang, W. Yu, H. Zhang, Z. Li, Z. Wang, J. Lai, L. Wang, S. Feng, *Adv. Sci.* **2022**, *9*, 2103722.
- [40] X. Zhong, Z. Zheng, J. Xu, X. Xiao, C. Sun, M. Zhang, J. Ma, B. Xu, K. Yu, X. Zhang, H. M. Cheng, G. Zhou, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2209980.
- [41] X. Fan, R. Zhang, S. Sui, X. Liu, J. Liu, C. Shi, N. Zhao, C. Zhong, W. Hu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202302640.
- [42] D. Wang, Z. Li, L. Yang, J. Zhang, Y. Wei, Q. Feng, Q. Wei, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *454*, 140090.