---
source: Liu 等 - 2022 - Promoting the Electrocatalytic Ethanol Oxidation Activity of Pt by Alloying with Cu.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 50.741s
generated: 2026-01-09T04:55:46.219135Z
---

*Article*

# **Promoting the Electrocatalytic Ethanol Oxidation Activity of Pt by Alloying with Cu**

**Di Liu, Hui-Zi Huang, Zhejiaji Zhu, Jiani Li, Li-Wei Chen, Xiao-Ting Jing and An-Xiang Yin \***

Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Cluster Science, Beijing Key Laboratory of Photoelectronic/Electrophotonic Conversion Materials, Advanced Technology Research Institute (Jinan), School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing 100081, China **\*** Correspondence: yin@bit.edu.cn

**Abstract:** The development and commercialization of direct ethanol fuel cells requires active and durable electro-catalysts towards the ethanol oxidation reactions (EOR). Rational composition and morphology control of Pt-based alloy nanocrystals can not only enhance their EOR reactivity but also reduce the consumption of precious Pt. Herein, PtCu nanocubes (NCs)/CB enclosed by welldefined (100) facets were prepared by solution synthesis, exhibiting much higher mass activity (4.96 A mgPt −1 ) than PtCu nanoparticles (NPs)/CB with irregular shapes (3.26 A mgPt −1 ) and commercial Pt/C (1.67 A mgPt −1 ). CO stripping and in situ Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) experiments indicate that the alloying of Cu enhanced the adsorption of ethanol, accelerated the subsequent oxidation of intermediate species, and increased the resistance to CO poisoning of PtCu NCs/CB, as compared with commercial Pt/C. Therefore, alloying Pt with earth-abundant Cu under rational composition and surface control can optimize its surface and electronic structures and represents a promising strategy to promote the performance of electro-catalysts while reduce the use of precious metals.

**Keywords:** Pt–Cu alloy; nanocubes; electrocatalysis; ethanol oxidation reaction; in situ FTIR

**Citation:** Liu, D.; Huang, H.-Z.; Zhu, Z.; Li, J.; Chen, L.-W.; Jing, X.-T.; Yin, A.-X. Promoting the Electrocatalytic Ethanol Oxidation Activity of Pt by Alloying with Cu. *Catalysts* **2022**, *12*, 1562. [https://doi.org/10.3390/](https://doi.org/10.3390/catal12121562) [catal12121562](https://doi.org/10.3390/catal12121562)

Academic Editors: Lichen Bai, Jun Gu and Barbara Mecheri

Received: 31 October 2022 Accepted: 29 November 2022 Published: 2 December 2022

**Publisher's Note:** MDPI stays neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.

**Copyright:** © 2022 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article is an open access article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY) license [\(https://](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/) [creativecommons.org/licenses/by/](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/) 4.0/).

# **1. Introduction**

Fuel cells represent an efficient route for the direct conversion of chemical energy to electricity with potential applications in sustainable energy storage, electricity generation, and transportation [\[1,](#page-9-0)[2\]](#page-9-1). Among all kinds of fuel cells, direct ethanol fuel cells (DEFCs) can generate electricity under mild conditions by utilizing nontoxic ethanol with high energy density [\[3](#page-9-2)[–5\]](#page-9-3). In particular, when coupled with the developing technology of sustainable photocatalytic/electrocatalytic CO<sup>2</sup> reduction reaction (CO2RR), the CO2RRethanol-DEFCs route would hold great potential for generating green electricity with a neutral carbon cycle [\[6](#page-9-4)[,7\]](#page-9-5). To achieve this goal, one of the most essential challenges is to accelerate the sluggish kinetics for the ethanol oxidation reaction (EOR) at the anode of DEFCs [\[8–](#page-9-6)[10\]](#page-9-7). To date, the precious noble metal Pt is generally considered the most efficient catalyst for EOR, along with other noble metals (e.g., Rh, Pd, etc.) and their alloys [\[11](#page-9-8)[–14\]](#page-9-9). However, the overall efficiency of DEFCs is still limited by the inevitable CO poisoning of Pt-based EOR catalysts and the low selectivity to CO<sup>2</sup> as the final oxidation products [\[15\]](#page-9-10). In addition, the high costs of such noble metals impede the large-scale commercialization of DEFCs. One promising strategy is to modify the surface geometric and electronic structures of Pt-based catalysts though morphology and composition-controllable synthesis of the alloy nanocrystals of Pt and non-precious metals (Pt–M nanocrystals) [\[16–](#page-9-11)[21\]](#page-9-12). For instance, various PtCu nanocrystals have been prepared and applied in an electrocatalytic formic acid oxidation reaction and a methanol oxidation reaction, displaying the composition and morphology effects on electrocatalysis reactions [\[17](#page-9-13)[,22](#page-9-14)[,23\]](#page-9-15). However, the application and comprehensive understanding of PtCu alloys in EOR are still elusive. For EOR applications, on one hand, rationally modifying the surface structures of Pt–M nanocrystals could tune

Catalysts 2022, 12, 1562 2 of 11

the adsorption behavior of CO\* and other key intermediates for EOR and thus prevent the CO poisoning, promote EOR efficiency, and enhance catalyst stability [20,21]. On the other hand, alloying with a non-precious metal could reduce the use of high-cost Pt to cut the catalyst costs for commercialization of DEFCs. Despite the enormous efforts devoted by researchers, there is still plenty of room for promoting the EOR catalysts' activity and extending their stability, while reducing their costs.

Herein, we report that alloying with non-precious Cu can not only modify the surface electronic structures of Pt-based EOR catalysts to boost their activity and stability with enhanced CO resistance and CO<sub>2</sub> selectivity, but also reduce the catalyst cost by minimizing the use of precious Pt. Monodispersed PtCu NCs and PtCu NPs could be selectively prepared through the co-reduction of platinum acetylacetonate [Pt(acac)<sub>2</sub>] and copper sulfate (CuSO<sub>4</sub>) species in oleylamine (OAm) solutions with the addition of appropriate amounts of cetyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTAB) (Figure 1). X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and CO stripping results indicated that alloying with non-precious Cu tuned the electronic structures of Pt through charge transfer and/or compressing the lattice distances of Pt. The removal of CO\* intermediates from the Pt surface was accelerated to increase the catalysts' resistance to CO poisoning during EOR. The electrochemical in situ Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) study illuminated that the low-coordinated (100) facets of PtCu NCs/CB could drive the C-C bond cleavage and CO\* intermediate oxidation, showing higher selectivity for CO<sub>2</sub>, the final product for complete EOR. As a result, the PtCu NCs/CB showed much higher EOR mass activity (4.96 mA mg<sub>Pt</sub><sup>-1</sup>) than PtCu NPs/CB (3.26 mA mg<sub>Pt</sub><sup>-1</sup>) and commercial Pt/C (1.67 mA mg<sub>Pt</sub><sup>-1</sup>) at the anodic potential of 0.75 V vs. RHE, with improved durability in both the chronoamperometry and accelerated cycling measurements.

<span id="page-1-0"></span>**Figure 1.** Scheme of the synthesis process and the EOR performance of PtCu NCs/CB and PtCu NPs/CB. The Pt atoms are shown in yellow and the Cu atoms are shown in blue.

#### 2. Results and Discussion

#### 2.1. Catalyst Synthesis and Characterization

We synthesized the PtCu NCs by a hot injection method. CuSO<sub>4</sub> and Pt(acac)<sub>2</sub> were used as the Cu and Pt sources, respectively. OAm was used as the solvent, and CTAB was added as the morphology modification surfactant. Pt–Cu alloy nanocrystals with varying compositions were also prepared by tuning the molar ratios of the Pt and Cu precursors. The compositions of all Pt–Cu nanocrystals were confirmed by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES), which were in good agreement with the molar ratios of the Pt and Cu precursors, suggesting that the Pt and Cu precursors were completely reduced during the synthesis. The X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns of the different PtCu NPs showed that the peaks shifted from the Pt standard peaks (JCPDS #04–0802) to Cu standard ones (JCPDS #04–0836) when more Cu was added, demonstrating

Catalysts 2022, 12, 1562 3 of 11

that the compositions of the PtCu alloy nanocrystals could be widely tuned to form the alloy of Pt and Cu (Figure S1) [22,23].

Monodispersed PtCu NCs enclosed by well-defined (100) facets with an average edge length of (14.08  $\pm$  1.35) nm were obtained with high selectivity, as shown in the transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images (Figures 2a and S2a). High-resolution TEM (HRTEM) images showed the high crystalline nature of the PtCu NC, where the lattice fringe spacing along the edge of the nanocube was 0.185 nm, located between the (100) lattice distances of face-centered cubic (fcc) Pt (0.196 nm) and Cu (0.181 nm) (Figure 2b,c). High-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) imaging and the corresponding elemental mapping images of PtCu NCs suggested that Pt and Cu elements were evenly distributed throughout the nanocubes (Figure 2d). Energy-dispersive spectrometer (EDS) line-scan profile also suggested the homogeneous distribution of Pt and Cu elements in the PtCu NCs (Figures 2e and S3). In addition, the Pt/Cu atomic ratio determined by EDS (Pt/Cu = 32.97/67.03, Figure S4a) was very close to that measured by ICP-OES (32.77/67.23), also suggesting the uniform distribution of Pt and Cu in the as-obtained PtCu NCs.

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 2.** Morphological and structural characterizations of PtCu NCs and PtCu NPs. (a) TEM image of the PtCu NCs. (b) HRTEM image of a PtCu NC. (c) The local enlarged region in the colored frame of (b). (d) HAADF-STEM image and the corresponding elemental mapping of PtCu NCs. (e) Linescanning profile of a PtCu NC. (f) TEM image of the PtCu NPs. (g) HRTEM image of a PtCu NP. (h) HAADF-STEM image and the corresponding elemental mapping of PtCu NPs. (i) Line-scanning profile of a PtCu NP. Scale bars: (a,f) 100 nm, (b,g) 5 nm, (c) 2 nm, (d,h) 20 nm, (e,i, inset) 10 nm.

PtCu NPs were obtained by decreasing the amount of CTAB in the synthesis process. TEM images exhibited uniform PtCu NPs with sphere-like morphologies with a narrow

*Catalysts* **2022**, *12*, 1562 4 of 11

size distribution of 14.04 ± 1.31 nm (Figures [2f](#page-2-0) and S2b). The PtCu NPs showed lattice fringe spacings of 0.213 nm, which could be assigned to the corresponding (111) facets of *fcc* Pt–Cu alloy (Figure [2g](#page-2-0)). HAADF-STEM and corresponding elemental mapping images suggested that Pt and Cu were also homogeneously distributed, which was also confirmed by the line-scanning profile of a PtCu NP (Figure [2h](#page-2-0),i). The atomic percentages of Pt and Cu were determined to be 33.62% and 66.38% by EDS (Figure S4b), which was in good agreement with ICP-AES (32.87% and 67.13%). The XRD patterns also confirmed that the as-obtained PtCu NPs were of the *fcc* phase Pt–Cu alloy (Figure S5).

The CTAB used in the synthesis was essential for the formation of the nanocubes [\[24,](#page-9-17)[25\]](#page-9-18). A mixture of nanocubes and irregularly shaped nanoparticles was obtained with excessive CTAB (Figure S6a). Aggregations of irregularly shaped nanoparticles were obtained in the absence of CTAB (Figure S6d). It was worth noting that aggregations of irregularly shaped nanoparticles were obtained by substituting CTAB with potassium bromide (KBr) (Figure S7), suggesting that the combination of bromide ions and the long carbon chains of CTAB facilitated the formation and dispersion of the uniform PtCu NCs. In addition, the atomic ratios of Pt and Cu were critical for forming nanocubes. The Pt49Cu<sup>51</sup> NPs showed irregular spherical profiles and the Pt23Cu<sup>77</sup> NPs presented a mixture of nanocubes and nanotripods (Figure S8).

## *2.2. Surface Structures*

XPS analyses suggested that the electronic states of Pt could be tuned by alloying with Cu. The high-resolution Pt 4*f* core-level spectrum of PtCu NCs/CB, PtCu NPs/CB, and commercial Pt/C are shown in Figure [3a](#page-4-0). Compared with commercial Pt/C, these peaks for PtCu NCs/CB and PtCu NPs/CB shifted toward lower binding energy, indicating that strong interactions between Pt and Cu were accompanied by the electron transfer from Cu to Pt [\[21,](#page-9-12)[26\]](#page-9-19). Systematic shift of the binding energy of Pt 4*f* 5/2 and Pt 4*f* 7/2 peaks was also observed in the high-resolution Pt 4*f* core-level spectrum of the Pt49Cu51/CB, PtCu NCs (Pt33Cu67)/CB, and Pt23Cu77/CB (Figure [3b](#page-4-0)), confirming the electron transfer from Cu to Pt. Additionally, two characteristic peaks of Cu 2*p* for the PtCu alloy nanocrystals were assigned to Cu 2*p*1/2 and Cu 2*p*3/2, respectively (Figure S9). The absence of observable satellite peaks for Cu2+ suggested that most Cu species in the Pt–Cu alloy were in the metallic state [\[21\]](#page-9-12). The electron transfer from Cu to Pt, as well as the compression of Pt lattices by alloying with small Cu atoms, would lower the *d*-band center of Pt [\[21\]](#page-9-12), further promoting the adsorption of OH\* species on Pt atoms to improve intrinsic activity and prevent the CO poisoning [\[18,](#page-9-20)[23\]](#page-9-15).

# *2.3. CO-Stripping Experiments*

Preventing the CO poisoning for Pt active sites was critical for EOR promotion [\[16](#page-9-11)[,17\]](#page-9-13). As shown in the CO-stripping experiments (Figure [3c](#page-4-0)), the PtCu NCs/CB showed lower onset and peak potentials (0.336 V and 0.631 V vs. RHE) for CO oxidation than for PtCu NPs/CB (0.343 V and 0.643 V vs. RHE) and Pt/C (0.436 V and 0.682 V vs. RHE), indicating a higher CO oxidation ability for PtCu NCs (Pt33Cu67)/CB in 1.0 M potassium hydroxide (KOH). The onset and peak potentials shift caused by the alloying of Pt with Cu indicated easier adsorption of OH\* species on the surface of PtCu alloy than on pure Pt, which could promote the oxidation of CO\* [\[21\]](#page-9-12). In addition, as shown in Figure [3d](#page-4-0), a systematic shift of the CO oxidation peaks was also observed, with the Pt23Cu77/CB showing the lowest onset and peak potentials (0.331 V and 0.628 V vs. RHE). Such results suggest that alloying Cu could facilitate the oxidation of CO\* intermediates on the Pt surface, and thus potentially promote the EOR process on such Pt–Cu alloy nanocrystals.

Catalysts 2022, 12, 1562 5 of 11

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** Electronic structures and electrochemical properties of Pt-based catalysts. (a) Pt 4f XPS spectra of PtCu NCs/CB, PtCu NPs/CB, and Pt/C. (b) Pt 4f XPS spectra of Pt $_{49}$ Cu $_{51}$ /CB, PtCu NCs (Pt $_{33}$ Cu $_{67}$ )/CB, and Pt $_{23}$ Cu $_{77}$ /CB. (c) CO-stripping experiments for PtCu NCs/CB, PtCu NPs/CB, and Pt/C in 1.0 M KOH. (d) CO-stripping experiments for Pt $_{49}$ Cu $_{51}$ /CB, PtCu NCs (Pt $_{33}$ Cu $_{67}$ )/CB, and Pt $_{23}$ Cu $_{77}$ /CB in 1.0 M KOH. (e,f) In situ FTIR of EOR on (e) PtCu NCs/CB and (f) Pt/C in the mixture of 1.0 M KOH and 1.0 M C $_{2}$ H $_{5}$ OH at different potentials varying from 0.3 to 1.1 V vs. RHE with an interval of 0.1 V.

#### 2.4. In Situ FTIR

Electrochemical in situ FTIR was performed to manifest the dissolved products in the thin layer during EOR on the PtCu NCs/CB and Pt/C. (Figure 3e,f). The peaks at ca. 1045 and 1087 cm<sup>-1</sup> were assigned to the C–O stretching vibration of ethanol [16,27–29], which could be firstly observed at 0.5 V and 0.7 V vs. RHE on PtCu NCs/CB and Pt/C, respectively. The signature peaks at 1550 cm<sup>-1</sup> were attributed to the asymmetric stretching vibration of the O–C–O band ( $\nu_{as}$  (OCO)) for the incomplete oxidation products [28,29]. Moreover, the peaks at ca. 1414 cm<sup>-1</sup> were attributed to the symmetric stretching vibra-

Catalysts 2022, 12, 1562 6 of 11

tion of the O–C–O band ( $\nu_s(\text{OCO})$ ) including the contributions from both acetate and carbonate ( $\text{CO}_3^{2-}$ ) species [28,29]. For neat acetate, the intensity ratio of the asymmetric and symmetric stretching vibration of the O–C–O band ( $I\nu_{as}(\text{OCO})/I\nu_s(\text{OCO})$ ) should be fixed to ca. 2.6 [29]. However, the corresponding ratio obtained on PtCu NCs/CB samples was approximately 1.16, demonstrating the existence of carbonate, of which the IR band (1400–1490 cm<sup>-1</sup>) could be covered in the 1414 cm<sup>-1</sup> band of acetate [29]. Such  $\text{CO}_3^{2-}$  species could be produced by reacting  $\text{CO}_2$  with KOH in solution. That is, the PtCu NCs/CB could significantly promote the selectivity and activity for  $\text{CO}_2$  in the EOR process, possibly due to the high density of Pt (100) surface sites, which favored the cleavage of the C–C bond of the ethanol molecule to produce  $\text{CO}_2$  products [30,31].

Thus, all these spectrum characterizations and electrochemical experiments suggested that the composition and morphology effects could effectively enhance the activity, stability, and CO<sub>2</sub> selectivity of PtCu NCs/CB, making them promising candidates for EOR catalysts.

#### 2.5. EOR Performance

The EOR properties of the as-prepared Pt-Cu alloy catalysts (PtCu NCs/CB and PtCu NPs/CB) and commercial Pt/C were tested in a typical three-electrode system with the electrolytes of 1.0 M KOH and 1.0 M C<sub>2</sub>H<sub>5</sub>OH. The peak current density (j) of the forwardscanning curve at 0.75 V vs. RHE was used to evaluate the EOR performance. The obtained current was normalized to the Pt mass and electrochemically active surface areas (ECSA) of the catalysts to obtain the mass activity and specific activity. As shown in Figure 4a,b, the mass activity of PtCu NCs/CB was 4.96 A mg<sub>Pt</sub><sup>-1</sup> for EOR, which was 1.5 and 3 times that of PtCu NPs/CB (3.26 A mg<sub>Pt</sub><sup>-1</sup>) and commercial Pt/C (1.67 A mg<sub>Pt</sub><sup>-1</sup>), respectively. The ECSA of each catalyst was examined by the charge transferred in the hydrogen underpotential (H<sub>upd</sub>) region of the cyclic voltammogram (CV) curves (Figure S10). The specific activity of PtCu NCs/CB was 6.75 mA cm<sup>-2</sup><sub>(ECSA)</sub>, which was 1.1 and 2.9 times that of PtCu NPs/CB (6.22 mA cm $^{-2}$ <sub>(ECSA)</sub>) and commercial Pt/C (2.34 mA cm $^{-2}$ <sub>(ECSA)</sub>), respectively (Figures 4b and S11). That is, the PtCu NCs/CB exhibited superior catalytic activity for EOR (Table S1). In the Nyquist plots (Figure S12), PtCu NCs/CB exhibited the smallest diameter for the semicircle in the mixture of 1.0 M KOH and 1.0 M C<sub>2</sub>H<sub>5</sub>OH, suggesting that the PtCu NCs/CB could promote the electron transport for EOR [18,32].

For the accelerated durability performed from 0.00 V to 1.20 V vs. RHE at a scan rate of 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup> at room temperature, the mass activity of the PtCu NCs/CB, PtCu NPs/CB, and commercial Pt/C dropped to 1.69, 0.80, and 0.14 A mg<sub>Pt</sub><sup>-1</sup> after 500 cycles, respectively (Figures 4c and S13). Notably, the bimetallic PtCu NCs/CB showed higher durability in cycling measurements toward EOR than PtCu NPs/CB and Pt/C. TEM images revealed no significant change in the morphology of PtCu NCs/CB after 500 testing cycles (Figure S14). In addition, the chronoamperometric curves (at 0.60 V vs. RHE, 1800s) indicated that the current density of PtCu NCs/CB was higher than that of PtCu NPs/CB and the commercial Pt/C for the entire time course (Figure 4d), further confirming the higher durability of PtCu NCs/CB in EOR. Moreover, we examined the composition-activity dependence for Ptbased nanocrystals with different Pt/Cu ratios (Figure 4e,f). The PtCu NCs (Pt<sub>33</sub>Cu<sub>67</sub>)/CB exhibited the highest mass activity for EOR among the obtained alloy catalysts, showing the activity order of PtCu NCs ( $Pt_{33}Cu_{67}$ )/CB >  $Pt_{23}Cu_{77}$ /CB >  $Pt_{49}Cu_{51}$ /CB > Pt/C and PtCu NCs  $(Pt_{33}Cu_{67})/CB > PtCu NPs (Pt_{33}Cu_{67})/CB > Pt/C$ . This trend is in good accordance with the XPS, CO stripping, and in situ FTIR results, and clearly demonstrates that tuning the compositions and morphologies of Pt-Cu alloy nanocrystals could significantly enhance their EOR performances. As a result, the as-prepared PtCu NCs/CB showed higher EOR activity than the most reported Pt-based catalysts (Table S2), indicating that alloying with earth-abundant Cu could not only promote the activity and durability of Pt-based EOR catalysts, but also reduce the cost of the precious Pt metals.

Catalysts **2022**, 12, 1562 7 of 11

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 4.** EOR performances of the Pt-based catalysts. (a) Pt mass-normalized CV curves of the EOR on PtCu NCs/CB, PtCu NPs/CB, and Pt/C in the mixed electrolyte of 1.0 M KOH and 1.0 M  $C_2H_5OH$ . (b) Mass activity and specific activity of PtCu NCs/CB, PtCu NPs/CB, and Pt/C. (c) The cycling stability measurements of PtCu NCs/CB, PtCu NPs/CB, and Pt/C. (d) The chronoamperometry curves of PtCu NCs/CB, PtCu NPs/CB, and Pt/C at 0.6 V vs. RHE for 1800 s. (e) Pt mass-normalized CV curves of the EOR on Pt $_{23}$ Cu $_{77}$ /CB, PtCu NCs (Pt $_{33}$ Cu $_{67}$ )/CB, Pt $_{49}$ Cu $_{51}$ /CB, and Pt/C. (f) Mass activity of Pt $_{23}$ Cu $_{77}$ /CB, PtCu NCs (Pt $_{33}$ Cu $_{67}$ )/CB, Pt $_{49}$ Cu $_{51}$ /CB, and Pt/C.

#### 3. Materials and Methods

#### 3.1. Materials

 $Pt(acac)_2$  (98%, Alfa Aesar, Ward Hill, MA, USA), CuSO<sub>4</sub> (99.95%, Aladdin, Shanghai, China), OAm (80–90%, Aladdin, Shanghai, China), CTAB (99%, Aladdin, Shanghai, China), KBr (99.99%, Aladdin, Shanghai, China), and KOH (99.99%, Aladdin, Shanghai, China) were used as received without further purification.

Catalysts 2022, 12, 1562 8 of 11

#### 3.2. Preparation of Pt-Based Catalysts

In a typical synthesis of PtCu NCs, 12.6 mg (0.08 mmol) of CuSO<sub>4</sub>, 28.8 mg (0.08 mmol) of CTAB, and 10 mL of OAm were loaded into a 50 mL three-necked flask. The system was evacuated for 3 min at room temperature and then purged with N<sub>2</sub>, and it was repeated three times. Then the solution was heated to 120 °C, kept for 30 min, and then further heated to 250 °C under N<sub>2</sub> atmosphere. Then Pt stock solution, which was made by dissolving 16.0 mg (0.04 mmol) of Pt(acac)<sub>2</sub> in 2 mL of OAm at 60 °C, was rapidly injected into the hot solution. The reaction mixture was kept at 250 °C for another 30 min and gradually turned black. Finally, the reaction mixture was cooled down to room temperature naturally, centrifuged, and washed by cyclohexane and ethanol three times. The as-obtained PtCu NCs were redispersed in cyclohexane to form a stable colloidal dispersion. The synthesis of PtCu NPs followed similar procedures except that 14.4 mg (0.04 mmol) of CTAB was added. The Pt<sub>49</sub>Cu<sub>51</sub> NPs and Pt<sub>23</sub>Cu<sub>77</sub> NPs were prepared under similar conditions, except that CuSO<sub>4</sub> was added with 6.3 mg (0.04 mmol), and 18.9 mg (0.12 mmol), respectively.

#### 3.3. Loading Catalysts on Carbon Supports

The high surface area carbon black (CB, Vulcan XC-72, Carbot Co., Boston, MA, USA) was dispersed in cyclohexane and then sonicated for 30 min. The as-prepared colloidal dispersion of PtCu NCs was added dropwise to the carbon cyclohexane dispersion. The mixture was further sonicated for 30 min and stirred for another 120 min. The resulting CB-supported catalyst was collected by filtration and then dried in the oven. It was further calcinated in the air at 200  $^{\circ}$ C for 5 h to remove the surfactant. The mass loading of metals in the CB-supported catalysts was measured by ICP-OES.

#### 3.4. Physicochemical Characterization

The XRD patterns were recorded on a Rigaku D/Max 2500 VB2+/PC X-ray powder diffractometer (Tokyo, Japan) with a Cu K $_{\alpha}$  radiation ( $\lambda$  = 0.154 nm) source at a scan rate of 5°·min $^{-1}$ . The TEM imaging was conducted with a JEOL JEM-2100 (Akishima, Japan) transmission electron microscope. EDS, HRTEM, HAADF-STEM, and mapping/line scanning were performed on a Talos F200X transmission electron microscope (Waltham, MA, USA). The XPS spectra were recorded on a Thermo Fisher ESCALAB 250 Xi XPS system (Waltham, MA, USA) with a monochromatic Al K $_{\alpha}$  X-ray source. ICP-OES studies were performed on an Agilent ICP-OES 720 spectrometer (Santa Clara, CA, USA).

In situ FTIR spectroscopy experiments were conducted on a Nicolet iS50 FTIR (Waltham, MA, USA) spectrometer equipped with an MCT detector cooled with liquid nitrogen. A calcium fluoride window and an in situ EC-IR thin cell were applied in the in situ FTIR spectroscopy test. The working electrode was a glassy carbon electrode (10 mm in diameter) with a Pt-based catalyst. SCE and Pt wires were used as the reference electrode and counter electrode, respectively. The working electrode was pressed onto the calcium fluoride window with a gap less than 10  $\mu$ m when collecting IR spectrum. The electrolyte was a mixture of 1.0 M KOH and 1.0 M ethanol. The spectral resolution was set to 8 cm<sup>-1</sup>, and 64 interferograms were co-added for each spectrum. A reference spectrum was acquired at 0.1 V vs. RHE. The sample spectra were recorded during the chronopotentiometry tests with the anodic potential increased from 0.3 to 1.1 V vs. RHE in the step of 0.1 V.

## 3.5. Electrochemical Characterization

Electrochemical measurements were conducted on an electrochemical workstation (CHI 760E, Shanghai, China) with a standard three-electrode system at room temperature. A saturated calomel electrode (SCE) was used as the reference, and a platinum plate (1  $\times$  1 cm<sup>2</sup>) was used as the counter electrode. The catalyst ink was prepared by dispersing 1 mg of the CB-supported catalyst powder in a mixture of ethanol (700  $\mu$ L), water (290  $\mu$ L), and Nafion dispersion (5 wt%, 10  $\mu$ L). A 10  $\mu$ L volume of the catalyst ink

*Catalysts* **2022**, *12*, 1562 9 of 11

was dropped onto glassy carbon electrodes (5 mm in diameter, PINE instruments) and used as the working electrode.

## **4. Conclusions**

In summary, this study reports the synthesis of Pt–Cu alloy catalysts with delicate composition and morphology control. Notably, PtCu NCs/CB with appropriate Pt/Cu atomic ratios exhibited boosted activity and stability towards the oxidation of ethanol due to the regulated surface geometric and electronic structures. CO-stripping experiments and in situ FTIR studies revealed that alloying with Cu could prevent the CO poisoning and promote the selectivity for CO<sup>2</sup> as the final product of ethanol oxidation. Therefore, the strategy of introducing earth-abundant Cu as a promoter in Pt-based catalysts could enhance the adsorption of C2H5OH, accelerate the subsequent oxidation of key intermediates, prevent the CO-poisoning, enhance catalyst stability, and reduce the catalyst costs simultaneously. Our study may find more applications in promoting the performance of electro-catalysts while reducing their costs.

**Supplementary Materials:** The following supporting information can be downloaded at: [https:](https://www.mdpi.com/article/10.3390/catal12121562/s1) [//www.mdpi.com/article/10.3390/catal12121562/s1.](https://www.mdpi.com/article/10.3390/catal12121562/s1) Figure S1: XRD patterns of the Pt49Cu51, PtCu NCs (Pt33Cu67), and (c) Pt23Cu77, Figure S2: The histograms of size distributions of at least 100 particles. (a) PtCu NCs, (b) PtCu NPs, Figure S3: Line scanning profile of PtCu NC, Figure S4: Elemental analysis by EDS. (a) PtCu NCs (b) PtCu NPs, Figure S5: XRD patterns of the commercial Pt/C, PtCu NPs, and PtCu NCs, Figure S6: TEM images of the PtCu nanoparticles synthesized by using different amounts of CTAB. (a) 0.16 mmol, (b) 0.08 mmol, (c) 0.04 mmol, (d) 0.00 mmol, Figure S7: TEM image of the PtCu nanoparticles synthesized by using 0.08 mmol KBr, Figure S8: TEM images of the PtCu nanocrystals with different Pt/Cu atomic ratios. (a) Pt49Cu51, (b) PtCu NCs (Pt33Cu67), and (c) Pt23Cu77, Figure S9: (a) Cu 2*p* XPS spectra of PtCu NCs/CB and PtCu NPs/CB. (b) Cu 2*p* XPS spectra of Pt49Cu51/CB and Pt23Cu77/CB, Figure S10: CV curves of PtCu NCs/CB, PtCu NPs/CB, and commercial Pt/C catalysts in N<sup>2</sup> -saturated 0.1 M HClO<sup>4</sup> at a scan rate of 50 mV s−<sup>1</sup> , Figure S11: ECSA-normalized CV curves of the EOR on PtCu NCs/CB, PtCu NPs/CB and commercial Pt/C in the mixed electrolyte of 1.0 M KOH and 1.0 M C2H5OH at a scan rate of 50 mV s−<sup>1</sup> , Figure S12: Nyquist plots measured at 0.75 V vs. RHE in the mixture of 1.0 M KOH and 1.0 M C2H5OH, Figure S13: Mass activities of PtCu NCs/CB, PtCu NPs/CB and commercial Pt/C before and after 500 cycles in 1.0 M KOH and 1.0 M C2H5OH at a scan rate of 50 mV s−<sup>1</sup> , Figure S14: TEM images of (a) Pt/C, (b) PtCu NPs/CB, and (c) PtCu NCs/CB before electrochemical measurements. TEM images of (d) Pt/C, (e) PtCu NPs/CB, and (f) PtCu NCs/CB after 500 cycles in 1.0 M KOH and 1.0 M C2H5OH at a scan rate of 50 mV s−<sup>1</sup> , Table S1: Summary of the ECSAs, loading, mass activities and specific activities at 0.75 V vs. RHE for Pt-based catalysts, Table S2: EOR electrocatalytic activities of Pt-based catalysts in alkaline media, [\[11](#page-9-8)[,18,](#page-9-20)[21,](#page-9-12)[33](#page-10-6)[–44\]](#page-10-7).

**Author Contributions:** A.-X.Y. designed the research. D.L. synthesized the catalysts and conducted the structure analysis and electrochemical studies. H.-Z.H., Z.Z., J.L., L.-W.C. and X.-T.J. assisted with the material synthesis, characterizations, and catalysis measurements. D.L. and A.-X.Y. co-wrote the paper. A.-X.Y. supervised the research. All authors discussed the results and assisted during manuscript preparation. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.

**Funding:** This research was funded by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (21971012, 21922502, and 21971017), the National Key Research and Development Program of China (2020YFB1506300), the Beijing Municipal Natural Science Foundation (JQ20007), and the Beijing Institute of Technology Research Fund Program.

**Data Availability Statement:** All data that support the plots and other findings within this paper are available from the corresponding authors on reasonable request.

**Acknowledgments:** We thank the Analysis and Testing Center of BIT for technical support.

**Conflicts of Interest:** The authors declare no competing interests.

*Catalysts* **2022**, *12*, 1562 10 of 11

#### **References**

<span id="page-9-0"></span>1. Majlan, E.H.; Rohendi, D.; Daud, W.R.W.; Husaini, T.; Haque, M.A. Electrode for proton exchange membrane fuel cells: A review. *Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev.* **2018**, *89*, 117–134. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2018.03.007)

- <span id="page-9-1"></span>2. Gottesfeld, S.; Dekel, D.R.; Page, M.; Bae, C.; Yan, Y.; Zelenay, P.; Kim, Y.S. Anion exchange membrane fuel cells: Current status and remaining challenges. *J. Power Sources* **2018**, *375*, 170–184. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2017.08.010)
- <span id="page-9-2"></span>3. Goldemberg, J. Ethanol for a sustainable energy future. *Science* **2007**, *315*, 808–810. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1126/science.1137013) [\[PubMed\]](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17289989)
- 4. Badwal, S.P.S.; Giddey, S.; Kulkarni, A.; Goel, J.; Basu, S. Direct ethanol fuel cells for transport and stationary applications—A comprehensive review. *Appl. Energy* **2015**, *145*, 80–103. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2015.02.002)
- <span id="page-9-3"></span>5. Akhairi, M.A.F.; Kamarudin, S.K. Catalysts in direct ethanol fuel cell (DEFC): An overview. *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2016**, *41*, 4214–4228. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2015.12.145)
- <span id="page-9-4"></span>6. Luo, M.C.; Wang, Z.Y.; Li, Y.G.C.; Li, J.; Li, F.W.; Lum, Y.W.; Nam, D.H.; Chen, B.; Wicks, J.; Xu, A.; et al. Hydroxide promotes carbon dioxide electroreduction to ethanol on copper via tuning of adsorbed hydrogen. *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 5814. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-13833-8)
- <span id="page-9-5"></span>7. Karapinar, D.; Creissen, C.E.; Rivera de la Cruz, J.G.; Schreiber, M.W.; Fontecave, M. Electrochemical CO<sup>2</sup> reduction to ethanol with copper-based Catalysts. *ACS Energy Lett.* **2021**, *6*, 694–706. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.0c02610)
- <span id="page-9-6"></span>8. Kim, I.; Han, O.H.; Chae, S.A.; Paik, Y.; Kwon, S.H.; Lee, K.S.; Sung, Y.E.; Kim, H. Catalytic reactions in direct ethanol fuel cells. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2011**, *50*, 2270–2274. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201005745)
- 9. Menshikov, V.S.; Novomlinsky, I.N.; Belenov, S.V.; Alekseenko, A.A.; Safronenko, O.I.; Guterman, V.E. Methanol, ethanol, and formic acid oxidation on new platinum-containing catalysts. *Catalysts* **2021**, *11*, 158. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.3390/catal11020158)
- <span id="page-9-7"></span>10. Zheng, Y.; Wan, X.J.; Cheng, X.; Cheng, K.; Dai, Z.F.; Liu, Z.H. Advanced catalytic materials for ethanol oxidation in direct ethanol fuel cells. *Catalysts* **2020**, *10*, 166. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.3390/catal10020166)
- <span id="page-9-8"></span>11. Bai, J.; Xiao, X.; Xue, Y.Y.; Jiang, J.X.; Zeng, J.H.; Li, X.F.; Chen, Y. Bimetallic platinum–rhodium alloy nanodendrites as highly active electrocatalyst for the ethanol oxidation reaction. *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2018**, *10*, 19755–19763. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.8b05422) [\[PubMed\]](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29799726)
- 12. Wang, Y.; Zou, S.Z.; Cai, W.B. Recent advances on electro-oxidation of ethanol on Pt- and Pd-based catalysts: From reaction mechanisms to catalytic materials. *Catalysts* **2015**, *5*, 1507–1534. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.3390/catal5031507)
- 13. Gao, F.; Zhang, Y.P.; Ren, F.F.; Song, T.X.; Du, Y.K. Tiny Ir doping of sub-one-nanometer PtMn nanowires: Highly active and stable catalysts for alcohol electrooxidation. *Nanoscale* **2020**, *12*, 12098–12105. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1039/D0NR02736G) [\[PubMed\]](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32478767)
- <span id="page-9-9"></span>14. Bai, J.; Liu, D.; Yang, J.; Chen, Y. Nanocatalysts for electrocatalytic oxidation of ethanol. *ChemSusChem* **2019**, *12*, 2117–2132. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/cssc.201803063)
- <span id="page-9-10"></span>15. Kavanagh, R.; Cao, X.M.; Lin, W.F.; Hardacre, C.; Hu, P. Origin of low CO<sup>2</sup> selectivity on platinum in the direct ethanol fuel cell. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2012**, *51*, 1572–1575. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201104990)
- <span id="page-9-11"></span>16. Zhang, B.W.; Lai, W.H.; Sheng, T.; Qu, X.M.; Wang, Y.X.; Ren, L.; Zhang, L.; Du, Y.; Jiang, Y.X.; Sun, S.G.; et al. Ordered platinum–bismuth intermetallic clusters with Pt-skin for a highly efficient electrochemical ethanol oxidation reaction. *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 5214–5220. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1039/C8TA09553A)
- <span id="page-9-13"></span>17. Hu, J.W.; Fang, C.; Jiang, X.M.; Zhang, D.L.; Cui, Z.Q. Ultrathin and porous 2D PtPdCu nanoalloys as high-performance multifunctional electrocatalysts for various alcohol oxidation reactions. *Inorg. Chem.* **2022**, *61*, 9352–9363. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.2c01257)
- <span id="page-9-20"></span>18. Peng, H.C.; Ren, J.; Wang, Y.C.; Xiong, Y.; Wang, Q.C.; Li, Q.; Zhao, X.; Zhan, L.S.; Zheng, L.R.; Tang, Y.G.; et al. One-stone, two birds: Alloying effect and surface defects induced by Pt on Cu2−xSe nanowires to boost C–C bond cleavage for electrocatalytic ethanol oxidation. *Nano Energy* **2021**, *88*, 106307. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2021.106307)
- 19. Wu, Y.; Cai, S.F.; Wang, D.S.; He, W.; Li, Y.D. Syntheses of water-soluble octahedral, truncated octahedral, and cubic Pt–Ni nanocrystals and their structure-activity study in model hydrogenation reactions. *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2012**, *134*, 8975–8981. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1021/ja302606d)
- <span id="page-9-16"></span>20. Wang, Y.; Zheng, M.; Li, Y.R.; Ye, C.L.; Chen, J.; Ye, J.Y.; Zhang, Q.H.; Li, J.; Zhou, Z.Y.; Fu, X.Z.; et al. p-d orbital hybridization induced by a monodispersed Ga site on a Pt3Mn nanocatalyst boosts ethanol electrooxidation. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202115735.
- <span id="page-9-12"></span>21. Liu, T.Y.; Wang, K.; Yuan, Q.; Shen, Z.B.; Wang, Y.; Zhang, Q.H.; Wang, X. Monodispersed sub-5.0 nm PtCu nanoalloys as enhanced bifunctional electrocatalysts for oxygen reduction reaction and ethanol oxidation reaction. *Nanoscale* **2017**, *9*, 2963–2968. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1039/C7NR00193B) [\[PubMed\]](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28210732)
- <span id="page-9-14"></span>22. Xu, D.; Bliznakov, S.; Liu, Z.P.; Fang, J.Y.; Dimitrov, N. Composition-dependent electrocatalytic activity of Pt–Cu nanocube catalysts for formic acid oxidation. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2010**, *122*, 1304–1307. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/ange.200905248)
- <span id="page-9-15"></span>23. Yin, A.X.; Min, X.Q.; Zhu, W.; Liu, W.C.; Zhang, Y.W.; Yan, C.H. Pt–Cu and Pt–Pd–Cu concave nanocubes with high-index facets and superior electrocatalytic activity. *Chem. Eur. J.* **2012**, *18*, 777–782. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/chem.201102632) [\[PubMed\]](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22170590)
- <span id="page-9-17"></span>24. Liu, D.; Lv, Q.Q.; Lu, S.Q.; Fang, J.J.; Zhang, Y.F.; Wang, X.D.; Xue, Y.R.; Zhu, W.; Zhuang, Z.B. IrCuNi deeply concave nanocubes as highly active oxygen evolution reaction electrocatalyst in acid electrolyte. *Nano Lett.* **2021**, *21*, 2809–2816. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.0c04878)
- <span id="page-9-18"></span>25. Yu, T.; Kim, D.Y.; Zhang, H.; Xia, Y.N. Platinum concave nanocubes with high-index facets and their enhanced activity for oxygen reduction reaction. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2011**, *50*, 2773–2777. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201007859)
- <span id="page-9-19"></span>26. Huang, M.H.; Jiang, Y.Y.; Jin, C.H.; Ren, J.; Zhou, Z.Y.; Guan, L.H. Pt–Cu alloy with high density of surface Pt defects for efficient catalysis of breaking C–C bond in ethanol. *Electrochim. Acta* **2014**, *125*, 29–37. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2014.01.085)

*Catalysts* **2022**, *12*, 1562 11 of 11

<span id="page-10-0"></span>27. Dai, L.X.; Wang, X.Y.; Yang, S.S.; Zhang, T.; Ren, P.J.; Ye, J.Y.; Nan, B.; Wen, X.D.; Zhou, Z.Y.; Si, R.; et al. Intrinsic composition and electronic effects of multicomponent platinum nanocatalysts with high activity and selectivity for ethanol oxidation reaction. *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 11270–11280. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1039/C8TA03320J)

- <span id="page-10-2"></span>28. Lan, B.; Huang, M.; Wei, R.L.; Wang, C.N.; Wang, Q.L.; Yang, Y.Y. Ethanol electrooxidation on rhodium-lead catalysts in alkaline media: High mass activity, long-term durability, and considerable CO<sup>2</sup> selectivity. *Small* **2020**, *16*, 2004380. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202004380)
- <span id="page-10-1"></span>29. Lan, B.; Wang, Q.L.; Ma, Z.X.; Wu, Y.J.; Jiang, X.L.; Jia, W.S.; Zhou, C.X.; Yang, Y.Y. Efficient electrochemical ethanol-to-CO<sup>2</sup> conversion at rhodium and bismuth hydroxide interfaces. *Appl. Catal. B* **2022**, *300*, 120728. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2021.120728)
- <span id="page-10-3"></span>30. Lee, Y.W.; Han, S.B.; Kim, D.Y.; Park, K.W. Monodispersed platinum nanocubes for enhanced electrocatalytic properties in alcohol electrooxidation. *Chem. Commun.* **2011**, *47*, 6296–6298. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1039/c1cc10798d)
- <span id="page-10-4"></span>31. Busó-Rogero, C.; Grozovski, V.; Vidal-Iglesias, F.J.; Solla-Gullón, J.; Herrero, E.; Feliu, J.M. Surface structure and anion effects in the oxidation of ethanol on platinum nanoparticles. *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2013**, *1*, 7068–7076. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1039/c3ta10996h)
- <span id="page-10-5"></span>32. Bai, S.X.; Xu, Y.; Cao, K.L.; Huang, X.Q. Selective ethanol oxidation reaction at the Rh–SnO<sup>2</sup> interface. *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2005767. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202005767) [\[PubMed\]](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33314444)
- <span id="page-10-6"></span>33. Li, M.F.; Duanmu, K.; Wan, C.Z.; Cheng, T.; Zhang, L.; Dai, S.; Chen, W.X.; Zhao, Z.P.; Li, P.; Fei, H.L.; et al. Single-atom tailoring of platinum nanocatalysts for high-performance multifunctional electrocatalysis. *Nat. Catal.* **2019**, *2*, 495–503. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-019-0279-6)
- 34. Erini, N.; Beermann, V.; Gocyla, M.; Gliech, M.; Heggen, M.; Dunin-Borkowski, R.E.; Strasser, P. The Effect of surface site ensembles on the activity and selectivity of ethanol electrooxidation by octahedral PtNiRh nanoparticles. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, 6533–6538. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201702332) [\[PubMed\]](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28455907)
- 35. Han, S.H.; Liu, H.M.; Chen, P.; Jiang, J.X.; Chen, Y. Porous trimetallic PtRhCu cubic nanoboxes for ethanol electrooxidation. *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1801326. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.201801326)
- 36. Chen, L.G.; Liang, X.; Li, X.T.; Pei, J.J.; Lin, H.; Jia, D.Z.; Chen, W.X.; Wang, D.S.; Li, Y.D. Promoting electrocatalytic methanol oxidation of platinum nanoparticles by cerium modification. *Nano Energy* **2020**, *73*, 104784. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2020.104784)
- 37. Wu, F.X.; Eid, K.; Abdullah, A.M.; Niu, W.X.; Wang, C.; Lan, Y.X.; Elzatahry, A.A.; Xu, G.B. Unveiling one-pot template-free fabrication of exquisite multidimensional PtNi multicube nanoarchitectonics for the efficient electrochemical oxidation of ethanol and methanol with a great tolerance for CO. *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2020**, *12*, 31309–31318. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.0c01668)
- 38. Zhang, Y.P.; Gao, F.; Wang, C.Q.; Shiraishi, Y.; Du, Y.K. Engineering spiny PtFePd@PtFe/Pt core@multishell nanowires with enhanced performance for alcohol electrooxidation. *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2019**, *11*, 30880–30886. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.9b09110)
- 39. Wang, J.; Zhang, J.; Liu, G.G.; Ling, C.Y.; Chen, B.; Huang, J.T.; Liu, X.Z.; Li, B.; Wang, A.L.; Hu, Z.N.; et al. Crystal phasecontrolled growth of PtCu and PtCo alloys on 4H Au nanoribbons for electrocatalytic ethanol oxidation reaction. *Nano Res.* **2020**, *13*, 1970–1975. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-020-2849-y)
- 40. Yuan, X.L.; Jiang, X.J.; Cao, M.H.; Chen, L.; Nie, K.Q.; Zhang, Y.; Xu, Y.; Sun, X.H.; Li, Y.G.; Zhang, Q. Intermetallic PtBi core/ultrathin Pt shell nanoplates for efficient and stable methanol and ethanol electro-oxidization. *Nano Res.* **2019**, *12*, 429–436. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-018-2234-2)
- 41. Liu, H.M.; Li, J.H.; Wang, L.J.; Tang, Y.W.; Xia, B.Y.; Chen, Y. Trimetallic PtRhNi alloy nanoassemblies as highly active electrocatalyst for ethanol electrooxidation. *Nano Res* **2017**, *10*, 3324–3332. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-017-1545-z)
- 42. Eid, K.; Ahmad, Y.H.; Yu, H.J.; Li, Y.H.; Li, X.N.; AlQaradawi, S.Y.; Wang, H.J.; Wang, L. Rational one-step synthesis of porous PtPdRu nanodendrites for ethanol oxidation reaction with a superior tolerance for CO-poisoning. *Nanoscale* **2017**, *9*, 18881–18889. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1039/C7NR07609F) [\[PubMed\]](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29177288)
- 43. Pech-Rodríguez, W.J.; González-Quijano, D.; Vargas-Gutiérrez, G.; Morais, C.; Napporn, T.W.; Rodríguez-Varela, F.J. Electrochemical and in situ FTIR study of the ethanol oxidation reaction on PtMo/C nanomaterials in alkaline media. *Appl. Catal. B Environ.* **2017**, *203*, 654–662. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2016.10.058)
- <span id="page-10-7"></span>44. Hong, J.W.; Kim, Y.; Wi, D.H.; Lee, S.; Lee, S.U.; Lee, Y.W.; Choi, S.I.; Han, S.W. Ultrathin free-standing ternary-alloy nanosheets. *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 2753–2758. [\[CrossRef\]](http://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201510460)