---
source: Lu 等 - 2025 - Efficient Photogenerated Carrier‐Assisted COads Removal via Schottky Barrier of PdSnWOs.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 77.384s
generated: 2026-01-09T04:57:35.930801Z
---

# Efficient Photogenerated Carrier-Assisted CO<sub>ads</sub> Removal via Schottky Barrier of PdSn/WO<sub>3</sub> for Formic Acid Oxidation Reaction

Wenhao Lu, Tingting Du, Shijie Jia, Jiaqing Liu, Xing Lin, Hao Cui, Xin Zhang,\* and Fengchun Yang\*

Limiting the formation of CO adsorbed species (CO<sub>ads</sub>) or promoting its removal during formic acid oxidation reaction (FAOR) is essential to improving the activity and stability of Pd-based catalysts. In this work, an innovative strategy is proposed to adjust the Schottky barrier height (SBH) through band structure design for effective utilization of photogenerated carriers to remove CO<sub>ads</sub>, thereby improving the FAOR performance of Pd-based catalysts. Specifically, the electronic structure of Pd is adjusted by loading on the WO<sub>3</sub> nanosheets and incorporating different amounts of Sn to reduce Fermi level pinning and adjust SBH. The accelerated migration of photogenerated electrons promotes the accumulation of photogenerated holes on the valence band of WO<sub>3</sub> for the oxidation and removal of CO<sub>ads</sub>. The constructed Schottky barrier effectively regulates the electronic structure of the catalyst and optimizes the adsorption energy of intermediate CO, thus inhibiting the indirect reaction pathway. Therefore, the optimal Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> catalyst provides higher CO<sub>ads</sub> removal efficiency for photogenerated carrier-assisted electrocatalytic FAOR, with a mass activity of 2262.3 mA mg<sup>-1</sup><sub>Pd</sub>, outperforming most Pd-based catalysts. This work offers a novel approach to designing Pd-based catalysts, combining electronic structure modulation with photogenerated carrier assistance for the effective removal of CO<sub>ads</sub> to advance FAOR performance.

#### 1. Introduction

Direct formic acid fuel cells (DFAFCs) exhibit lower toxicity and higher power density, positioning them as promising energy sources expected to replace hydrogen fuel cells.<sup>[1]</sup> Palladium (Pd) is widely regarded as the most promising anode catalyst for formic acid oxidation reaction (FAOR) due to its preferential adherence to the direct oxidation pathway.<sup>[2]</sup> However, the activity

W. Lu, T. Du, S. Jia, J. Liu, X. Lin, H. Cui, X. Zhang, F. Yang Key Laboratory of Synthetic and Natural Functional Molecule Chemistry of Ministry of Education

College of Chemistry and Material Science Northwest University

Xi'an 710127, P. R. China

E-mail: zhangxin@nwu.edu.cn; fyang@nwu.edu.cn

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202501505

DOI: 10.1002/smll.202501505

of Pd-based catalysts still decays rapidly during DFAFCs operation. At higher potentials, formic acid inevitably follows indirect pathways and CO<sub>2</sub> reduction, leading to the formation of CO adsorbed species (CO<sub>ads</sub>) which occupy catalytic active sites and result in a rapid decline in FAOR activity.<sup>[3]</sup> Therefore, limiting the formation of CO<sub>ads</sub> or promoting its removal during FAOR is an attractive approach to improving the activity and stability of Pd-based catalysts.

To enhance the activity and stability of Pd-based catalysts, researchers have proposed several strategies: 1) Optimizing the adsorption energy of reaction intermediates by adjusting the electronic structure of Pd;[4] 2) Fully exposing the high-activity crystal facets of Pd by controlling the morphology;<sup>[5]</sup> 3) Suppressing the formation of COads in the indirect pathway by creating isolated Pd active sites; [6] 4) Promoting CO<sub>ads</sub> oxidation by activating water with oxophilic components to provide hydroxyl groups (OH<sub>ads</sub>).<sup>[7]</sup> Despite various strategies aimed at improving the structural components of Pdbased catalysts, challenges remain in the

continuous and effective removal of  ${\rm CO}_{\rm ads}$  under long-term operating conditions.

Photogenerated carrier-assisted (PCA) electrocatalysis is a frontier direction of electrocatalysis in recent years, which can improve the catalytic process through the synergistic interaction between photon energy and electrical energy.<sup>[8]</sup> Especially, some studies have shown that photogenerated holes with strong oxidation can not only participate in the oxidation of small organic molecules but also oxidize CO<sub>ads</sub> into CO<sub>2</sub> during the methanol oxidation reaction.<sup>[9]</sup> Therefore, it is reasonable to consider the photogenerated carrier assistance as an innovative and effective method for removing CO<sub>ads</sub> in FAOR process and improving the performance of Pd-based catalysts.

 $WO_3$  is a visible light-responsive photocatalyst, whose valence band is located at  $\approx 3.0$  eV, which has strong oxidizing ability and is expected to effetely remove  $CO_{ads}$  and enhance the activity of Pd-based catalysts for FAOR. [10] As a substrate material,  $WO_3$  offers significant advantages. Its valence and conduction band positions are more favorable for forming a strong synergistic effect

with metals, thereby significantly enhancing charge separation efficiency compared to other traditional semiconductors. Moreover, the optimal bandgap width and strong electron affinity of WO3 endow it with greater potential for efficient electron transport and catalytic reactions. Additionally, as an oxophilic metal oxide, WO3 can enhance the concentration of OHads in the solution. To our knowledge, the application of WO3 in PCA electrocatalysis has been rarely reported, primarily due to its insufficient channels for transporting photogenerated carriers, resulting in suboptimal separation performance.

Previous studies have demonstrated that when a semiconductor is combined with a noble metal, energy band bending occurs at the interface due to the difference in work function, leading to the formation of a Schottky barrier. Consequently, a space charge region devoid of free charge carriers forms at the interface. Under illumination, electrons and holes are excited into the space charge region, and the built-in electric field drives electrons and holes, respectively, to transfer to the semiconductor and metal, thereby effectively enhancing charge carrier separation and facilitating unidirectional electron flow. For example, Peng et al. successfully synthesized MnWO4/FeCoNi coating on Ti substrates for photo-assisted water splitting. The built-in electric field in the MnWO4/FeCoNi Mott–Schottky heterojunction enhances the separation and transfer of photogenerated carriers, effectively increasing the photocurrent density of MnWO4 and improving its photocatalytic performance.[\[11\]](#page-11-0) Furthermore, the establishment of Mott–Schottky heterojunctions can also optimize the adsorption energy of intermediates. Wang et al. synthesized Co4N/Co2P Mott–Schottky heterojunction electrocatalysts for hydrogen evolution reactions (HER). The Schottky contact regulates the hydrogen adsorption-free energy at the interface, resulting in outstanding HER performance.[\[12\]](#page-11-0)

However, the Schottky barrier height (SBH) affects the migration of electrons from the semiconductor to the metal, a small SBH can cause a certain amount of photogenerated electrons that have migrated to the metal surface to reverse migrate to the semiconductor; a large SBH can hinder the migration of photogenerated electrons from the semiconductor to the metal.[\[13\]](#page-11-0) Nevertheless, traditional metal-semiconductor junctions are affected by surface states and defect states, resulting in Fermi level pinning (FLP) and interface disorder effects, which lead to the SBH remaining unchanged with the metal work function.[\[14\]](#page-11-0) Therefore, designing a reasonable band structure without large band bending to avoid FLP is crucial for adjusting the SBH and extending the lifetime of photogenerated carriers.[\[15\]](#page-11-0)

It has been reported that changes in the catalyst electronic structure can cause changes in work function to release FLP effect, which further leads to changes in the SBH.[\[16\]](#page-11-0) Sn, with a small work function, is suitable as an intermediate between Pd and WO3 to adjust the electronic structure of the catalyst, which may reduce the FLP and effectively adjust the SBH. In addition, compared to three-dimensional materials, two-dimensional (2D) semiconductors are more conducive to the linear regulation of the metal work function for the Schottky barrier due to the lack of surface trap states.[\[17\]](#page-11-0) Therefore, WO3 nanosheets can be more effectively involved in the SBH regulation, providing a strong driving force for the separation of photogenerated carriers.

As far as we know, there is no research work on promoting PCA removal of COads in FAOR process by adjusting the SBH. Herein, the electronic structure of Pd was adjusted by loading on the WO3 nanosheets and incorporating different amounts of Sn to reduce FLP and adjust SBH. The accelerated migration of photogenerated electrons promotes the accumulation of photogenerated holes on the valence band of WO3 for the oxidation and removal of COads. The constructed Schottky barrier effectively regulates the electronic structure of the catalyst and optimizes the adsorption energy of intermediate CO, thus inhibiting the indirect reaction pathway. The introduction of Sn can not only regulate the electronic structure of Pd, but also enrich OHads on the catalyst surface, which is simultaneously committed by the oxophilic metal oxide WO3. This enhancement improves the catalytic activity of Pd for FAOR and increases its resistance to CO poisoning. Therefore, the optimal Pd1Sn1/WO3 catalyst provided higher COads removal efficiency for electrocatalytic FAOR under illumination, with a mass activity (MA) of 2262.3 mA mg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> Pd, surpassing most reported Pd-based catalysts. This novel approach significantly facilitates the COads removal during the FAOR process and effectively prevents the poisoning phenomena, which offers valuable guidance for designing advanced FAOR catalysts, broadening prospects for catalyst development in sustainable energy, and promoting clean energy technology applications.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

# **2.1. Synthesis and Structural Characterization of PdxSny/WO3**

The synthesis scheme of PdxSny/WO3 is illustrated in **Figure <sup>1</sup>**[a](#page-2-0) (Details in Supporting Information). WO3 was obtained by the hydrothermal method and calcination using Na2WO4 as the tungsten source, with the assistance of citric acid and glucose.[\[18\]](#page-11-0) PdxSny alloy was prepared by gradually adding NaBH4 to a mixture of PdCl2, SnCl2, and sodium citrate. Subsequently, the prepared WO3 and PdxSny were dispersed in a mixed solution of ethanol and water to prepare the PdxSny/WO3 through the solvothermal method. Then, the Pd loading content was determined by inductively coupled plasma-mass Spectrometry, and the MA of Pd was calculated (Table S1, Supporting Information).

The morphology and structure of the prepared catalysts were characterized through scanning electron microscope (SEM) and transmission electron microscope (TEM). As shown in Figure [1b,c,](#page-2-0) WO3 exhibits a nanosheet structure. The highresolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) image of WO3 shows highly ordered lattice fringes with a lattice spacing of 0.36 nm, corresponding to the (200) plane of WO3 (Figure [1d\)](#page-2-0). Additionally, the selected area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern reveals the good crystallinity of the WO3 nanosheets. It can be observed that after the solvothermal reaction between WO3 and PdxSny, uniformly distributed nanoparticles appeared on the surface of the nanosheet-like WO3, indicating the successful loading of PdxSny nanoparticles on WO3 (Figure [1e,f;](#page-2-0) Figures S1 and S2, Supporting Information). Furthermore, as shown in the inset of Figure [1f,](#page-2-0) the nanoparticle size of PdSn in Pd1Sn1/WO3 is ≈7.95 nm, much smaller than that of Pd1Sn1 (Figure S3, Supporting Information), which is beneficial for exposing more catalytically active sites of the noble metal Pd.

The HRTEM of Pd1Sn1/WO3 (Figure [1g\)](#page-2-0) shows lattice fringes with a spacing of 0.25 nm, slightly larger than the lattice spacing

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) Schematic illustration of the synthesis of PdxSny/WO3. b) SEM image of WO3. c) TEM image of WO3. d) HRTEM image of WO3 (Inset: SAED pattern of WO3). e) SEM image of Pd1Sn1/WO3. f) TEM image of Pd1Sn1/WO3 (Inset: size distribution of Pd1Sn1 nanoparticles in Pd1Sn1/WO3). g) HRTEM image of Pd1Sn1/WO3 (Inset: SAED pattern of Pd1Sn1/WO3). h) HAADF-STEM image and EDS elemental mapping of Pd, Sn, and W.

of the Pd (111) plane (≈0.23 nm), indicating that the introduction of Sn caused a certain degree of lattice expansion in Pd, which is beneficial for the removal of COads. [\[19\]](#page-11-0) Moreover, the magnified HRTEM image in Figure 1g (red circle) shows interlaced lattice fringes of the Pd1Sn1(111) and WO3(200) crystal planes, indicating the formation of a tight interface with strong interactions between Pd1Sn1 and WO3, which is conducive to interfacial electron transfer.[\[20\]](#page-11-0) Meanwhile, the decrease in SAED intensity of Pd1Sn1/WO3 suggests the introduction of defects caused by the interaction between WO3 and PdSn alloy. The element content and distribution of the Pd1Sn1/WO3 are further characterized through energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS). The EDS elemental mapping in Figure 1h shows that PdSn nanoparticles are uniformly loaded on WO3 nanosheets, confirming the successful preparation of Pd1Sn1/WO3.

The crystal structure of the WO3, Pd1Sn1/C, and PdxSny/WO3 are obtained by X-ray diffraction (XRD). As shown in **Figure 2**[a,](#page-3-0) the diffraction peaks at 23.08°, 23.71°, 24.10°, and 34.02° are

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a) XRD patterns of WO3, Pd1Sn1/C, and PdxSny/WO3. b) XPS survey and high-resolution spectra of c) O 1s, d) W 4f, e) Pd 3d, and f) Sn 3d. g) The shifts of binding energy for Sn 3d, Pd 3d, and W 4f in PdxSny/WO3.

consistent with the (001), (020), (200), and (220) planes of WO3 (PDF#20-1324). Additionally, as indicated by the red rectangle in Figure 2a, diffraction peaks between the Pd (111) plane (PDF#46- 1043) and the Sn (220) plane (PDF#87-0794) are also observed in the PdxSny/WO3, indicating the formation of a single-phase solid solution between Pd and Sn, rather than separate metallic phases. Compared with Pd, the diffraction peak shifted to lower angles, suggesting that the introduction of Sn caused lattice expansion in Pd, which is consistent with the HRTEM result mentioned above. Furthermore, no additional diffraction peaks were observed besides the diffraction peaks of the PdSn alloy and WO3, indicating the high purity of synthesized catalysts.

The surface valence states and electron transfer between the components of the prepared catalyst were analyzed through X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The XPS survey in Figure 2b reveals the presence of Pd, Sn, W, and O elements in PdxSny/WO3, which is consistent with the EDS results above. As shown in Figure 2c, two peaks at 530.70 and 532.97 eV can be observed in the high resolution O 1s spectrum, attributed to W-O-W and oxygen vacancies (Ov), respectively, and the latter can be used as adsorption sites for OHads. [\[21\]](#page-11-0) Moreover, it can be observed that the content ratio of Ov/W-O-W in Pd1Sn1/WO3 is the highest, indicating that it has the highest Ov content, and the abundant Ov enables it to adsorb a large number of OHads, which accelerates the oxidative removal of COads and enhances the FAOR activity. As shown in Figure S4 (Supporting Information), to further verify the existence of Ov, electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) experiments were conducted. The results indicated that Pd1Sn1/WO3 exhibited a stronger EPR signal at g = 2.002 compared to other PdxSny/WO3 and WO3, which further confirmed a higher concentration of Ov in Pd1Sn1/WO3, consistent with the XPS results. Figure 2d shows the high resolution XPS spectrum of W 4f, with two peaks at 35.69 and 37.79 eV attributed to W 4f5/2 and W 4f7/2, confirming the presence of W<sup>6</sup><sup>+</sup>, while two peaks at 35.03 and 37.13 eV can be attributed to W5<sup>+</sup>, further confirming the formation of Ov.

As shown in Figure 2e, the high resolution Pd 3d spectrum can be deconvoluted into two sets of peaks, with binding energies at 335.21 and 340.38 eV corresponding to Pd<sup>0</sup> 3d5/2 and Pd<sup>0</sup> 3d3/2, respectively, and the peaks at 336.91 and 342.15 eV corresponding to Pd2<sup>+</sup> 3d5/2 and Pd<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> 3d3/2, respectively. Simultaneously, the high resolution Sn 3d spectrum can also be deconvoluted into two sets of peaks: Sn<sup>0</sup> 3d5/2 and Sn<sup>0</sup> 3d3/2 located a 484.93 and 493.36 eV, and Sn<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> 3d5/2 and Sn<sup>4</sup><sup>+</sup> 3d3/2 located a 486.93 and 495.40 eV (Figure 2f). Compared to Sn/C, Pd/C, and WO3, the binding energies of PdxSny/WO3 catalysts showed different shifts. For a further comparison, the binding energy shifts are summarized in Figure 2g. It can be observed that the binding energy of Pd 3d in PdxSny/WO3 exhibits a positive shift compared to Pd/C, while the binding energy of Sn 3d shows a negative shift compared to Sn/C. Compared to WO3, the binding energy of W 4f

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** a) UPS spectra of WO3 and Pd1Sn1. b) Energy band structure and photogenerated carriers transfer path of PdxSny/WO3. c) Work function (EΦ) and SBH (Φ) of PdxSny/WO3. d) Transient photocurrent response of WO3 and PdxSny/WO3. e) PL spectra of WO3 and PdxSny/WO3. f) EIS of WO3 and PdxSny/WO3. g) Tauc plot of WO3 and PdxSny/WO3. h) Schematic diagram of the location of conduction and valence bands for WO3 and PdxSny/WO3.

in PdxSny/WO3 showed a positive shift, indicating electron transfer from Pd and WO3 to Sn. Moreover, the degree of the binding energy shifts followed the trend of Pd1Sn1/WO3*>* Pd1Sn2/WO3*>* Pd2Sn1/WO3, suggesting that the surface of Pd in Pd1Sn1/WO3 was more positively charged, and the positively charged Pd was able to further enrich OHads around Sn and WO3, thus promoting the oxidative removal of COads. [\[13a\]](#page-11-0) Figure S5 (Supporting Information) further summarizes and analyzes the relationship between valence states of Pd, Sn W, and Ov content. It is found that with the increase of Ov, the proportion of hypervalent states of Pd, Sn, and W decreases, which is closely related to the electron transfer process. Specifically, with the increase of Ov, the proportion of Pd<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, Sn<sup>4</sup>+, and W6<sup>+</sup> gradually decreased, indicating that the introduction of Ov promoted the reduction of metal ions and transformed into low valence states, thus enhancing the electron transfer ability. This phenomenon is positively correlated with the concentration of Ov, and the more Ov, the stronger the electron transfer ability. Among them, the proportion of Pd<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, Sn<sup>4</sup>+, and W6<sup>+</sup> in Pd1Sn1/WO3 samples is the lowest, which is closely related to the higher Ov content.

#### **2.2. Band Structure and PCA Properties of Catalysts**

The electron transfer and the SBH between PdxSny and WO3 were further investigated through ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy (UPS). As shown in **Figure 3**a, the work functions of Pd1Sn1 and WO3 calculated by UPS are −8.1 and −7.6, respectively. The detailed electron transfer path between Pd1Sn1 and WO3 is shown in Figure 3b. Since the work function of WO3 is smaller than that of Pd1Sn1, electrons will spontaneously flow from WO3 to Pd1Sn1 when they are in contact with each other until the Fermi level reaches equilibrium, resulting in an upward bending of the WO3 band and thus forming a Schottky barrier at the interface.[\[11\]](#page-11-0) Thus, the SBH affects the separation efficiency of photogenerated electron–hole pairs.

www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.small-journal.com

The different work functions of Pd, Sn, determine the level of energy band bending, resulting in Schottky barriers with different heights. The SBH for Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>2</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub>, Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub>, and Pd<sub>2</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> were obtained by calculating their work function (Figure S6, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure 3c, compared to the higher SBH of Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>2</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> and the lower SBH of Pd<sub>2</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub>, Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> has a moderate SBH, which can improve the photoresponsive ability and the separation efficiency of photogenerated electron-hole pairs. Subsequently, the photogenerated carrier's separation ability of WO<sub>3</sub> and Pd<sub>y</sub>Sn<sub>y</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> was further evaluated through a series of tests. Figure 3d shows that the transient photocurrent generated by these catalysts are reproducible and stable, and the photocurrent response of Pd<sub>x</sub>Sn<sub>y</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> are significantly enhanced compared to WO<sub>3</sub>, indicating that Pd<sub>x</sub>Sn<sub>v</sub> effectively promotes the separation of photogenerated carriers. As can be seen from the steady-state photoluminescence spectrum (PL) in Figure 3e, when the excitation wavelength is 400 nm, the emission peaks of Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>2</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub>, Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub>, and Pd<sub>2</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> remain unchanged wavelength compared to WO<sub>3</sub>, indicating no change in their bandgap. Meanwhile, the interfacial charge transfer resistance (R<sub>ct</sub>) of the catalyst was analyzed through electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS). As shown in Figure 3f, under illumination, the R<sub>ct</sub> of Pd, Sn, /WO<sub>3</sub> decreased significantly, indicating that the Schottky barrier formed between  $Pd_xSn_v$  and  $WO_3$  accelerates interfacial electron transfer.

The above transient photocurrent, PL, and R<sub>ct</sub> results of Pd<sub>x</sub>Sn<sub>y</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> are summarized in Figure S7 (Supporting Information). As can be seen, the transient photocurrent of  $Pd_1Sn_1/WO_3$ reaches 5.93  $\mu$ A cm<sup>-2</sup>, higher than Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>2</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> (4.99  $\mu$ A cm<sup>-2</sup>) and  $Pd_2Sn_1/WO_3$  (4.42  $\mu A$  cm<sup>-2</sup>). Under illumination, the  $R_{ct}$  of the Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> shows a 63.8% of decline, greater than the decrease of 58.54% for Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>2</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> and 42.2% for Pd<sub>2</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub>. Meanwhile, Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> exhibits the lowest fluorescence intensity, which indicates the superior ability to separate photogenerated carriers. The superior photocurrent response, reaction kinetics properties, and carrier separation capability of Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> can be attributed to the moderate SBH. The larger SBH of Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>2</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> hinders the migration of photogenerated electrons from WO<sub>3</sub> to Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>2</sub>, while the smaller SBH of Pd<sub>2</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> allows a certain number of photogenerated electrons to easily migrate back from Pd<sub>2</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub> to WO<sub>3</sub>, resulting in rapid recombination of photogenerated carriers. The moderate SBH of Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> not only facilitates the separation of photogenerated electronhole pairs but also suppresses the back migration of photogenerated electrons, thereby improving the utilization efficiency of photogenerated holes. The flat band potentials  $(E_{FR})$  of the catalysts were evaluated through the Mott-Schottky plot (Figure S8, Supporting Information). The positive slope indicates that the catalysts exhibit n-type characteristics. For n-type semiconductors, the conduction band potential ( $E_{CB}$ ) is 0.2 V lower than the  $E_{FB}$ . Therefore, the  $E_{CB}$  for  $WO_3$ ,  $Pd_1Sn_2/WO_3$ ,  $Pd_1Sn_1/WO_3$ , and Pd<sub>2</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> are 1.69, 1.90, 1.74, and 1.94 V versus RHE (-6.13, -6.34, -6.18 and -6.38 V vs NHE), respectively. As shown in Figure 3g, the bandgaps (Eg) of WO3, Pd1Sn2/WO3, Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub>, and Pd<sub>2</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> calculated by UV-vis DRS are basically unchanged, all of which are 1.70 eV, confirming that the introduction of Pd<sub>v</sub>Sn<sub>v</sub> has no significant effect on the bandgap of WO3. Moreover, the bandgap of the WO3 prepared in this

study is smaller than most reported WO3, because the valence band of WO<sub>3</sub> is usually contributed by O 2p orbitals, and the absence of O atoms leads to changes of band structure, which further confirms the presence of abundant O<sub>v</sub> in WO<sub>3</sub>.<sup>[23]</sup> The valence band  $(E_{VB})$  of these catalysts is calculated using the formula  $E_{VB} = E_{\sigma} - E_{CB}$ . The band structure diagram shown in Figure 3h indicates that although the bandgap of Pd<sub>v</sub>Sn<sub>v</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> does not show significant changes compared to pure WO<sub>3</sub>, the energy band positions have shifted due to the band bending caused by the formation of the Mott–Schottky junction between Pd, Sn, and WO<sub>3</sub>. The strong charge transfer capability between Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub> and WO3 causes changes in the electron distribution and band structure of WO<sub>3</sub>, resulting in the most positive valence band position of Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub>. Therefore, it has a stronger oxidation capability for CO<sub>ads</sub> and HCOOH molecules on the catalyst surface compared to  $Pd_1Sn_2/WO_3$  and  $Pd_2Sn_1/WO_3$ .

A series of electrochemical tests were performed on the prepared catalysts in a three-electrode system to evaluate their PCA electrocatalytic FAOR performance. As shown in Figure S9a (Supporting Information), cyclic voltammograms (CVs) of Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>2</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub>, Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub>, and Pd<sub>2</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> were tested in 0.5 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> solution under light and dark condition. The reduction peak between 0.7 and 0.8 V corresponds to the reduction of a monolayer of PdO. The electrochemical active surface area (ECSA) of the prepared catalysts was calculated based on the area of the PdO reduction peak. As seen in Figure \$9b (Supporting Information), Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> (827.92 cm<sup>2</sup> mg<sup>-1</sup>) exhibits a higher ECSA compared to  $Pd_1Sn_2/WO_3$  (777.89 cm<sup>2</sup> mg<sup>-1</sup>) and Pd<sub>2</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> (631.37 cm<sup>2</sup> mg<sup>-1</sup>), indicating that Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> has more catalytic active sites available for FAOR. This is because Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> possesses an optimal Pd/Sn ratio, forming a homogeneous alloy phase that facilitates the uniform distribution of Pd and Sn atoms. Although the ECSA of these catalysts did not change significantly after illumination, their FAOR activity was enhanced. This can be attributed to the promoting effect of the accumulated holes on the valence band of WO<sub>3</sub>. As shown in Figure S9c-f (Supporting Information), Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> exhibits the highest MA and specific activity (SA), as well as the smallest Tafel slope, which is consistent with the ECSA results. Due to the appropriate SBH, illumination can promote the activity and reaction kinetics of Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> more significantly. Mercury intrusion porosimetry (MIP) analysis further investigates the surface characteristics of the catalyst (Figure \$10 and Table \$2, Supporting Information). The results reveal that Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> possesses the highest porosity, which is closely related to its superior catalytic performance. Additionally, the pore size distribution and total pore area were found to be optimal for maximizing the exposure of active sites on the catalyst surface, thus enhancing its catalytic efficiency. Therefore, Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> is used to further study the performance and mechanism of PCA electrocatalysis of FAOR.

To evaluate the FAOR performance of  $Pd_1Sn_1/WO_3$ , a series of photoelectrochemical tests were performed, comparing  $Pd_1Sn_1/WO_3$  with Pd/C and  $Pd_1Sn_1/C$  to clarify the roles of Sn and  $WO_3$ . First, the ECSA of the catalysts was determined by the area of the PdO reduction peak in **Figure 4a**. The calculated ECSA for Pd/C,  $Pd_1Sn_1/C$ , and  $Pd_1Sn_1/WO_3$  are 215.25, 642.85, and 827.92 cm<sup>2</sup> mg<sup>-1</sup>, respectively (Inset of Figure 4a). This suggests that  $Pd_1Sn_1/WO_3$  exhibits highly exposed catalytic

<span id="page-6-0"></span>Figure 4. a) CVs of Pd/C, Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/C, and Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> with and without illumination in 0.5 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> solution (inset: the calculation of ECSA). b) CVs curves of Pd/C, Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/C, and Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> with and without illumination in 0.5 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> + 0.5 M HCOOH solution (Sample size n = 20, p-values < 0.05). c) MA and SA of Pd/C, Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/C, and Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> under light and dark conditions. d) MA comparison of Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> with other Pd-based catalysts. e) Relationship between the FAOR peak current density j) and the square root of the scan rate (v1/2) for Pd/C, Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/C, and Pd<sub>2</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>2</sub>. f) Tafel slopes of Pd/C, Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/C, and Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub>. g) Onset potentials for FAOR of Pd/C, Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/C, and Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub>. h) Chronoamperometry (CA) test of commercial Pd/C, Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/C and Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> with and without illumination in 0.5 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub>+0.5 M HCOOH.

active sites, attributed to the strong interaction among Pd, Sn, and WO3. Additionally, light exposure did not significantly affect the ECSA of Pd/C, Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/C, and Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub>, indicating no substantial structural changes on their surfaces under illumination. However, the WO<sub>3</sub> in Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> can generate photogenerated electron-hole pairs under illumination, and the moderate SBH between Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub> and WO<sub>3</sub> can greatly facilitate the separation of photogenerated electron-hole pairs, and enhances the electron transfer rate, which enriches photogenerated holes for accelerating the FAOR process.

Figure 4b illustrates the mass normalized CVs of the catalysts for FAOR in a 0.5 M  $H_2SO_4 + 0.5$  M HCOOH solution, based on multiple repetitions of experiments to ensure reproducibility and reliability, with the corresponding MA data with error bars in Figure S11 (Supporting Information) and the statistical analysis summarized in Table S3 (Supporting Information). In order to accurately evaluate the FAOR activity of Pd/C, Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/C, and Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub>, the forward scan peak currents

were normalized to the actual Pd loading and ECSA. As shown in Figure 4c, Pd₁Sn₁/WO₃ exhibits the highest MA, ≈1339.5 mA mg<sup>-1</sup><sub>Pd</sub>, which is 24.64 and 2.28 times higher than that of Pd/C and Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/C, respectively. Under illumination, the MA of Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> further increases to 2262.3 mA mg<sup>-1</sup><sub>Pd</sub>, 1.70 times higher than its activity under dark conditions, surpassing most FAOR catalysts reported to date (Figure 4d; Table S4, Supporting Information). Similarly, Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> also demonstrates higher SA, at 2.20 and 1.78 times that of Pd/C and Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/C, respectively. Under illumination, the SA of Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> further increases, reaching 1.70 times that of its performance under dark conditions.

To investigate the reaction kinetics and mass transport processes of the catalysts, CVs of Pd/C, Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/C, and Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> were tested at scan rates ranging from 20 to 100 mV s<sup>-1</sup> (Figure \$12, Supporting Information). Subsequently, the relationship between the mass normalized peak current density and the square root of the scan rate was plotted. As shown in Figure 4e, the peak

current density exhibits a linear relationship with v1/2, indicating that the FAOR on Pd/C, Pd1Sn1/C, and Pd1Sn1/WO3 is a diffusion-controlled process. Additionally, the slope of the j versus v1/2 curve for Pd1Sn1/WO3 is higher than that of Pd/C and Pd1Sn1/C, and further increases under light illumination, suggesting that Pd1Sn1/WO3 possesses remarkable photo-assisted reaction kinetics. Pd1Sn1/WO3 exhibits excellent FAOR activity and catalytic kinetics, which can be attributed to the positive charge of Pd enhancing the accumulation of OHads, as well as the moderate SBH between Pd1Sn1 and WO3, which facilitates the accumulation of holes in the valence band of WO3, thereby accelerating the removal of COads and the oxidation of HCOOH.

To further evaluate the FAOR kinetics of Pd1Sn1/WO3, the Tafel slope was calculated. As shown in Figure [4f,](#page-6-0) the Tafel slope of Pd1Sn1/WO3 is 226 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1, lower than that of Pd/C (367 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) and Pd1Sn1/C (250 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), indicating that Pd1Sn1/WO3 possesses the fastest kinetics for FAOR and is further enhanced under illumination (193 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1). The onset potentials of the catalysts were determined by the enlarged CVs in Figure [4g.](#page-6-0) The results show that the onset potential of Pd1Sn1/WO3 (163 mV) is lower than that of Pd1Sn1/C (170 mV) and Pd/C (185 mV), and further decreased to 153 mV under illumination, indicating that Pd1Sn1/WO3 exhibits excellent PCA electrocatalytic FAOR kinetics.

In addition to its high activity, Pd1Sn1/WO3 also exhibits excellent stability. As shown by the CA test in Figure [4h,](#page-6-0) Pd1Sn1/WO3 maintains high activity after 20 000s of CA testing, and the decline in current density is suppressed under illumination. Furthermore, TEM images after the stability test reveal that the lattice structure of Pd1Sn1/WO3 undergoes minimal changes, indicating its structural stability during the reaction (Figure S13, Supporting Information). Figure S14 (Supporting Information) shows the CO-stripping CVs of Pd1Sn1/WO3-D and Pd1Sn1/WO3-L after stability tests. The CO oxidation potential of Pd1Sn1/WO3-L remains consistent with that before the stability tests, indicating that the catalyst performance is stable under light conditions and that the CO poisoning effect did not significantly intensify. In contrast, the CO oxidation potential of Pd1Sn1/WO3-D exhibited a significant change following the stability test. Specifically, the potential difference relative to Pd1Sn1/WO3-L increased from 10 mV before the test to 18 mV after the test, indicating that the introduction of light significantly alleviated the CO poisoning effect, and compared with the catalyst under the dark condition, the stability of catalyst was significantly enhanced by light. Figure S15 (Supporting Information) shows that even after 500 CVs cycles, the current density loss of Pd1Sn1/WO3 under illumination (27.1%) is still lower than that of Pd1Sn1/WO3 in the dark (33.4%), as well as Pd1Sn1/C (36.8%) and Pd/C (38.7%), further confirming that the introduction of Sn and WO3 improves the catalytic stability of Pd. The enhanced stability is attributed to the enriched OHads and the accumulation of holes in the WO3 valence band, which accelerates the oxidation of COads adsorbed on the Pd surface. This process releases the catalytic active sites, providing a continuous supply of active sites for FAOR.

The electron transfer kinetics of FAOR on Pd/C, Pd1Sn1/C, and Pd1Sn1/WO3 electrodes were studied through EIS.[\[24\]](#page-11-0) **Figures 5**[a–d](#page-8-0) show the Nyquist plots of FAOR on Pd/C, Pd1Sn1/C, and Pd1Sn1/WO3 at different electrode potentials (0.18 to 0.58 V vs RHE) in a 0.5 m H2SO4 + 0.5 m HCOOH solution. Initially, the diameter of the impedance arc (DIA) decreases as the applied potential increases. This is because when the electrode potential is below the oxidation potential of formic acid, the intermediate products of formic acid oxidation are effectively removed, releasing active sites for formic acid oxidation and thus accelerating the oxidation rate. As the potential further increases, the DIA increases due to COads poisoning on Pd. However, as the potential continuously increases, the impedance arc begins to reverse into the second quadrant, mainly because the OHads accumulated near Pd removed the COads, thereby restoring the catalytic active sites. With further increase in potential, the impedance arc shifts from the second quadrant back to the first quadrant, with a larger DIA. This may be due to the coverage of the Pd surface with PdO at high potentials, which inhibits the oxidation of formic acid.

To compare the degree of charge transfer Rct at different catalysts for different potentials, the relationship between Rct and electrode potential was plotted (Figure [5e\)](#page-8-0), and the EIS data were fitted using an equivalent circuit diagram (Figure [5f\)](#page-8-0). As shown in Figure [5e,](#page-8-0) the potential where the impedance arc of Pd1Sn1/WO3 shifts to the second quadrant (0.48 V) is lower than that of Pd1Sn1/C (0.53 V), indicating that the oxidation and removal of COads on the Pd1Sn1/WO3 occurs more rapidly than on the Pd1Sn1/C, attributed to the strong oxidizing effect of OHads enriched on the Pd surface. Further illumination experiments reveal that the impedance arc of Pd1Sn1/WO3 shifts to the second quadrant at 0.43 V, indicating that COads adsorbed on the Pd1Sn1/WO3 surface is more readily oxidized and removed under light conditions. This enhancement is due to the facilitation of COads oxidation by the photogenerated holes accumulated in the valence band of WO3. In contrast, the impedance arc of Pd/C shifts to the second quadrant at 0.58 V, indicating that it is less effective in oxidizing and removing COads adsorbed on the Pd surface at low potentials. Furthermore, within the potential range of 0.18 to 0.58 V (vs RHE), the Rct magnitude follows the order: Pd1Sn1/WO3 (Light) *<* Pd1Sn1/WO3 (Dark) *<* Pd1Sn1/C *<* Pd/C. This is because the formation of the Schottky barrier creates a built-in electric field that accelerates interfacial electron transfer and promotes the separation of photogenerated carriers, resulting in a lower Rct for Pd1Sn1/WO3 under illumination.

### **2.3. Mechanism of Catalyst Resistance to CO Poisoning**

In order to gain a deeper understanding of the enhanced anti-CO ability of Pd1Sn1/WO3, a series of DFT calculations were carried out. First, a 2D layered WO3 substrate was constructed, and Pd/Sn nanoparticles with a ratio of 1:1 were loaded to simulate the actual environment of Pd1Sn1/WO3. Meanwhile, Pd nanoparticles with the same quantity as the PdSn nanoparticles were constructed for comparison, and the optimized structures are shown in Figure S16 (Supporting Information). Previous research has demonstrated that regulating the d-band center of palladium can optimize its adsorption strength for COads. [\[25\]](#page-11-0) Therefore, the d-band center of Pd is studied through analyzing the partial state of density (PDOS) and the valence band spectra of Pd and Pd1Sn1/WO3. As shown in **Figure 6**[a,](#page-9-0) compared to Pd nanoclusters (−0.83 eV), Pd1Sn1/WO3 (−3.87 eV) exhibits a lower

<span id="page-8-0"></span>Figure 5. EIS of the prepared catalysts in 0.5 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> + 0.5 M HCOOH solution at different potentials: a) Pd/C. b) Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> under dark conditions. d) Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> under light conditions. e) The relationship between charge transfer resistance and electrode potential for Pd/C, Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/C, and Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub>. f) Equivalent circuit diagram for EIS.

d-band center. Similarly, as shown in Figure 6b, the d-band center from XPS valence band spectra also shows a downshift trend, which effectively inhibits the reverse electron supply of the CO<sub>ads</sub>  $2\pi^*$  orbital and weakens its adsorption on Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub>.<sup>[26]</sup> The adsorption energy of CO<sub>ads</sub> on Pd and Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> was calculated to confirm the above perspective. As shown in Figure 6c and Figure S17 (Supporting Information), the adsorption energy of CO<sub>ads</sub> on PdSn/WO<sub>3</sub> is -0.37 eV, higher than -1.89 eV for Pd, indicating that the introduction of Sn and WO3 reduces the adsorption strength of CO on the catalyst. To explore the poisoning resistance mechanism of holes in catalysts, long-term transient photocurrent, and CO-stripping tests were conducted. As depicted in Figure S18a (Supporting Information), the Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> catalyst exhibits a stable photocurrent response even after prolonged testing, indicating that the holes can maintain long-term stability in the electrochemical environment. Then CA tests were performed on Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> to saturate the catalyst surface with CO<sub>ads</sub>, followed by one cycle of CO-stripping to investigate the CO<sub>ads</sub> content (Figure \$18b, Supporting Information). Subsequently, additional CA tests were conducted under illumination at a potential lower than the CO oxidation potential. The results indicate that the CO oxidation peak intensity was lower under illumination compared to dark conditions and exhibited a significant decrease with extended illumination duration. As the CA tests were conducted at potentials below the CO oxidation potential, the diminished intensity of the CO oxidation peak was ascribed to the hole-mediated oxidation of CO. As shown in Figure \$18c (Supporting Information), additional stability tests and CO-stripping confirmed that both sets of catalysts had the same initial CO<sub>ads</sub>

adsorption. After reaching a steady state, no further CO oxidation peaks appeared. The difference in peak intensity between the first and steady-state cycles represents the current required to oxidize all CO<sub>ads</sub> on the catalyst surface. The aforementioned experiments indicate that holes can participate in the oxidation of CO<sub>ads</sub> and alleviate catalyst poisoning during the FAOR. However, due to the mismatch between the generation rate of holes and the oxidation rate of CO<sub>ads</sub>, the CO oxidation process becomes the rate-determining step, eventually leading to the deactivation of the catalyst. As shown in Figure 6d, compared to Pd/C and Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/C, both the onset and peak potentials of CO oxidation on Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> exhibit a negative shift, indicating that Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> exhibits a strong oxidation capability for CO, which is further enhanced under illumination. This is attributed not only to the ability of holes to oxidize CO but also to the oxyphilicity of Sn and WO<sub>3</sub>, which promotes water dissociation and OH<sub>2ds</sub> accumulation on the positively charged Pd surface. To verify the enhanced ability of the catalyst for concentrating  $OH_{ads}$ , the adsorption energy of OH<sub>ads</sub> was calculated. As shown in Figure 6e and Figure \$19 (Supporting Information), the adsorption energy of OH<sub>ads</sub> on Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> is lower than that on Pd, indicating that the adsorption of  $OH_{ads}$  on  $Pd_1Sn_1/WO_3$  is more favorable, which facilitates the removal of  $\text{CO}_{\text{ads}}$  from the Pd surface.

With dimethyl pyridine N-oxide (DMPO) as the trapping agent,[27] EPR experiments were conducted to detect the content of ·OH on the catalyst surface. As shown in Figure 6f, no ·OH signals were detected for Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> and WO<sub>3</sub> in the dark. However, after 30 s of illumination, both samples exhibited OH signals, and the signal intensity of Pd<sub>1</sub>Sn<sub>1</sub>/WO<sub>3</sub> was higher than

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**Figure 6.** a) D-band center of Pd and Pd1Sn1/WO3. b) XPS valence band spectrum of Pd and Pd1Sn1/WO3. c) CO adsorption energies on Pd and Pd1Sn1/WO3 surfaces. (Insets show CO adsorption models). d) CO-stripping CVs of Pd/C, PdSn/C and Pd1Sn1/WO3 with and without illumination. e) ·OH adsorption energies on Pd and Pd1Sn1/WO3 surfaces. (Insets show OH adsorption models). f) EPR spectra of ·OH radicals in Pd1Sn1/WO3 and WO3 with and without illumination. g) Simplified reaction pathways of electrocatalytic FAOR. h) Schematic illustration of the mechanism for PCA electrocatalytic FAOR on Pd1Sn1/WO3.

that of WO3. Notably, when the illumination time is extended to 120 s, the signal strength of Pd1Sn1/WO3 further increases, while the signal strength of WO3 remains unchanged, indicating that both Pd1Sn1/WO3 and WO3 can generate ·OH under illumination. However, Pd1Sn1/WO3 accumulates more ·OH due to its suitable SBH, enhancing COads oxidation and removal on the catalyst.

To further unravel the reaction mechanism of the catalyst, the free energy profile of FAOR and the optimized structures of the intermediates are obtained in Figure 6g and Figures S20 and S21 (Supporting Information) to investigate the reaction pathway followed by Pd1Sn1/WO3. Compared with the formation of the intermediate \*HCOO (0.04 eV) with a more positive free energy, the first dehydrogenation step is more inclined to form the intermediate \*COOH (−0.18 eV) with a more negative free energy. The second dehydrogenation step is the rate-determining step (RDS) for Pd1Sn1/WO3. In the direct pathway, \*HCOO requires only 0.2 eV of reaction energy to form CO2. Compared to the indirect pathway where \*COOH converts to CO (0.5 eV), \*COOH requires a smaller CO2 (0.42 eV) formation energy for the direct pathway, suggesting that the PdSn/WO3 is more inclined toward the direct reaction pathway.

<span id="page-10-0"></span>Based on the above experimental results, the mechanism of Pd1Sn1/WO3 catalyst for PCA electrocatalytic FAOR is proposed. The introduction of Sn reduces the d-band center and regulates the SBH, which promotes the separation and utilization of photogenerated carriers, effectively inhibits and optimizes the dehydration and dehydrogenation pathways, thereby facilitating the removal of COads and enhancing the FAOR performance. As shown in Figure [6h,](#page-9-0) the strong interaction between Pd, Sn, and WO3 facilitates electron transfer from Pd to Sn, resulting in a localized positive charge on the Pd side. This positive charge helps to enrich OHads on the Pd surface through electrostatic interactions, thereby accelerating the oxidative removal of COads adsorbed on Pd and releasing catalytic active sites, resulting in enhanced FAOR activity. Due to the difference in work function between the Pd1Sn1 alloy nanoparticles and WO3, electrons will spontaneously transfer from the conduction band of WO3 to the Pd1Sn1, thereby forming a Schottky barrier. Under illumination, photogenerated electrons migrate from WO3 to the Pd1Sn1 alloy driven by the Schottky barrier. Meanwhile, the holes accumulated in the valence band of WO3 can further oxidize and remove COads, accelerating the release of catalytic active sites, and ultimately enhancing the FAOR activity.

# **3. Conclusion**

The electronic structure of Pd was optimized by regulating the doping amount of Sn, thereby adjusting the height of the Schottky barrier between PdxSny and WO3. The Pd1Sn1/WO3 catalyst demonstrates the optimal SBH and exhibits enhanced photoelectrocatalytic activity along with excellent resistance to CO poisoning in FAOR. Under illumination, the MA of Pd1Sn1/WO3 was found to be 1.70, 2.28, and 24.64 times that of Pd1Sn1/C and Pd/C, respectively. The work function calculated through UPS showed that the appropriate SBH between Pd1Sn1 and WO3 facilitated the separation of photogenerated electron–hole pairs, leading to the accumulation of more photogenerated holes in the valence band, thereby accelerating the oxidation of formic acid and the removal of COads. Moreover, UV–vis DRS and Mott– Schottky analyses revealed that Pd1Sn1 minimally impacted the band structure of WO3, preserving its strongly oxidative holes and thereby exhibiting PCA electrocatalytic FAOR activity. The reaction mechanism was investigated through EIS and DFT, revealing that the outstanding activity in FAOR can be ascribed to the remarkable resistance to CO poisoning and a greater propensity for direct reaction pathways. CO stripping voltammetry revealed that Pd1Sn1/WO3 could efficiently remove COads at lower potentials under illumination. XPS analysis indicated that when Pd1Sn1 nanoparticles contacted with WO3 nanosheets, electrons transferred from Pd and WO3 to Sn, resulting in Pd becoming a positively charged center, which accelerated the enrichment of OHads around Pd and promoted the oxidation and removal of COads. Additionally, the modification in the electronic structure of Pd results in a weakened adsorption strength for COads. Therefore, the catalytic activity of Pd1Sn1/WO3 is significantly enhanced, with a MA of 2262.3 mA mg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> Pd, demonstrating excellent stability over 20000 s and surpassing most Pd-based catalysts in FAOR. This study proposes a catalyst design strategy that promotes FAOR performance with SBH modulation, emphasizing the critical roles of enriched OHads and photogenerated holes in the oxidation and removal of COads. It also advances fundamental research on designing efficient catalysts by leveraging the synergistic benefits of light and electrical energy.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

W.L. and T.D. contributed equally to this work. This work is supported by the "Top-rated Discipline" construction Scheme of Shaanxi higher education.

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

# **Keywords**

CO-tolerance, formic acid oxidation, Pd-based catalyst, photogenerated carrier-assisted electrocatalysis, schottky barrier

> Received: February 6, 2025 Revised: April 4, 2025 Published online: April 27, 2025

16136829, 2025, 23, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202501505 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [08/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [1] T. Shen, S. Chen, C. Zhang, Y. Hu, E. Ma, Y. Yang, J. Hu, D. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *32*, 2107672.
- [2] X. Chen, L. P. Granda-Marulanda, I. T. McCrum, M. T. M. Koper, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 38.
- [3] J.-Y. Wang, H.-X. Zhang, K. Jiang, W.-B. Cai, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2011**, *133*, 14876.
- [4] a) S. Chen, N. Liu, J. Zhong, R. Yang, B. Yan, L. Gan, P. Yu, X. Gui, H. Yang, D. Yu, Z. Zeng, G. Yang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202209693; b) X. Tan, J. Wang, Y. Xiao, Y. Guo, W. He, B. Du, H. Cui, C. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *37*, 2414283.
- [5] a) S. Luo, W. Chen, Y. Cheng, X. Song, Q. Wu, L. Li, X. Wu, T. Wu, M. Li, Q. Yang, K. Deng, Z. Quan, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1903683; b) A. Janssen, V. Pawlik, A. D. von Rueden, L. Xu, C. Wang, M. Mavrikakis, Y. Xia, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2103801.
- [6] a) T. Shen, S. Chen, R. Zeng, M. Gong, T. Zhao, Y. Lu, X. Liu, D. Xiao, Y. Yang, J. Hu, D. Wang, H. L. Xin, H. D. Abruña, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 9977; b) L. Liang, M. Li, B. Zhang, J. Liang, B. Zeng, L. Wang, Y. Tang, G. Fu, Z. Cui, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *13*, 2203803.
- [7] a) J. Zhu, L. Xia, R. Yu, R. Lu, J. Li, R. He, Y. Wu, W. Zhang, X. Hong, W. Chen, Y. Zhao, L. Zhou, L. Mai, Z. Wang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 15529; b) S. Jiang, J. Xue, T. Liu, H. Huang, A. Xu, D. Liu, Q. Luo, J. Bao, X. Liu, T. Ding, Z. Jiang, T. Yao, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2024**, *146*, 29084.
- [8] X. Wang, S. Xi, P. Huang, Y. Du, H. Zhong, Q. Wang, A. Borgna, Y.-W. Zhang, Z. Wang, H. Wang, Z. G. Yu, W. S. V. Lee, J. Xue, *Nature* **2022**, *611*, 702.

- <span id="page-11-0"></span>[9] a) X. Wang, M. Sun, Y. Guo, J. Hu, M. Zhu, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2020**, *558*, 38; b) X. Fang, S. Cai, M. Wang, Z. Chen, C. Lu, H. Yang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 7046.
- [10] H. Li, C. Lin, Y. Yang, C. Dong, Y. Min, X. Shi, L. Wang, S. Lu, K. Zhang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202210804.
- [11] M. Jiang, J. Xu, Y. Chen, L. Wang, P. Munroe, Z. H. Xie, S. Peng, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2024**, *54*, 202415492.
- [12] M. Qin, L. Chen, H. Zhang, M. Humayun, Y. Fu, X. Xu, X. Xue, C. Wang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *454*, 140230.
- [13] a) Z. X. Sun, K. Sun, M. L. Gao, Ö. Metin, H. L. Jiang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202206108; b) Y. H. Liu, X. Chu, Y. Jiang, W. Han, Y. Wang, L. H. Shao, G. Zhang, F. M. Zhang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2316546.
- [14] X. Gao, G. Ma, C. Luo, S. Xi, L. Ye, K. Xie, *Adv. Sci.* **2024**, *12*, 2410429.
- [15] J. Wang, G. Ni, W. Liao, K. Liu, J. Chen, F. Liu, Z. Zhang, M. Jia, J. Li, J. Fu, E. Pensa, L. Jiang, Z. Bian, E. Cortés, M. Liu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202217026.
- [16] L. Su, P. Wang, X. Ma, J. Wang, S. Zhan, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 21261.
- [17] J. Meng, C. Lee, Z. Li, *Sci. Bull.* **2024**, *69*, 1342.
- [18] J. Xu, H. Xu, A. Dong, H. Zhang, Y. Zhou, H. Dong, B. Tang, Y. Liu, L. Zhang, X. Liu, J. Luo, L. Bie, S. Dai, Y. Wang, X. Sun, Y. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2206991.

- [19] X. Zhou, Y. Ma, Y. Ge, S. Zhu, Y. Cui, B. Chen, L. Liao, Q. Yun, Z. He, H. Long, L. Li, B. Huang, Q. Luo, L. Zhai, X. Wang, L. Bai, G. Wang, Z. Guan, Y. Chen, C.-S. Lee, J. Wang, C. Ling, M. Shao, Z. Fan, H. Zhang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 547.
- [20] M. Dai, H. Yu, W. Chen, K.-A. Qu, D. Zhai, C. Liu, S. Zhao, S. Wang, Z. He, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *470*, 144240.
- [21] H.-c. Li, Q. Wan, C. Du, J. Zhao, F. Li, Y. Zhang, Y. Zheng, M. Chen, K. H. L. Zhang, J. Huang, G. Fu, S. Lin, X. Huang, H. Xiong, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 6072.
- [22] P. Guo, B. Tian, J. Liang, X. Yang, G. Tang, Q. Li, Q. Liu, K. Zheng, X. Chen, W. Wu, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2304420.
- [23] D. Zhang, T. Duan, Y. Luo, S. Liu, W. Zhang, Y. He, K. Zhu, L. Huang, Y. Yang, R. Yu, X. Yang, H. Shu, Y. Pei, X. Wang, M. Chen, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2306578.
- [24] C. Zhai, M. Sun, L. Zeng, M. Xue, J. Pan, Y. Du, M. Zhu, *Appl. Catal., B.* **2019**, *243*, 283.
- [25] Y. M. Liu, B. Q. Miao, H. Y. Yang, X. Ai, T. J. Wang, F. Shi, P. Chen, Y. Chen, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2402485.
- [26] T. J. Wang, Y. C. Jiang, J. W. He, F. M. Li, Y. Ding, P. Chen, Y. Chen, *Carbon Energy* **2022**, *4*, 283.
- [27] S. Mu, H. Lu, Q. Wu, L. Li, R. Zhao, C. Long, C. Cui, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 3694.