---
source: Lv 等 - 2022 - Highly Curved, Quasi‐Single‐Crystalline Mesoporous Metal Nanoplates Promote CC Bond Cleavage in Eth.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 67.347s
generated: 2026-01-09T04:58:43.281217Z
---

# **Highly Curved, Quasi-Single-Crystalline Mesoporous Metal Nanoplates Promote CC Bond Cleavage in Ethanol Oxidation Electrocatalysis**

*Hao Lv, Lizhi Sun, Yanzhi Wang, Shaohua Liu, and Ben Liu\**

**The ability to manipulate metal nanocrystals with well-defined morphologies and structures is greatly important in material chemistry, catalysis chemistry, nanoscience, and nanotechnology. Although 2D metals serve as interesting platforms, further manipulating them in solution with highly penetrated mesopores and ideal crystallinity remains a huge challenge. Here, an easy yet powerful synthesis strategy for manipulating the mesoporous structure and crystallinity of 2D metals in a controlled manner with cetyltrimethylammonium chloride as the mesopore-forming surfactant and extra iodine-ion as the structure/facet-selective agent is reported. This strategy allows for preparing an unprecedented type of 2D quasi-single-crystalline mesoporous nanoplates (SMPs) with highly curved morphology and controlled metal composition. The products, for example, PdCu SMPs, feature abundant undercoordinated sites, optimized electronic structures, excellent electron/mass transfers, and confined mesopore environments. Curved PdCu SMPs exhibit remarkable electrocatalytic activity of 6.09 A mgPd<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and stability for ethanol oxidation reaction (EOR) compared with its counterpart catalysts and commercial Pd/C. More importantly, PdCu SMPs are highly selective for EOR electrocatalysis that dramatically promotes C–C bond cleavage with a superior C1 pathway selectivity as high as 72.1%.**

**1. Introduction**

2D metals have been evoking a lot of interest in catalysis and electrocatalysis, owing to their intriguing physicochemical

H. Lv, L. Sun, Y. Wang, B. Liu Key Laboratory of Green Chemistry and Technology of Ministry of Education College of Chemistry Sichuan University Chengdu 610064, China E-mail: ben.liu@scu.edu.cn

S. Liu State Key Laboratory of Precision Spectroscopy Engineering Research Center for Nanophotonics & Advanced Instrument Ministry of Education School of Physics and Electronic Science East China Normal University Shanghai 200241, China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202203612.

**DOI: 10.1002/adma.202203612**

properties, such as abundant active sites, good electron/mass transferability, and better conductivity.[1] Numerous 2D metals, including Pd, Pt, Rh, Au, and their alloys, have been prepared and further demonstrated as the highly efficient (electro)catalysts in various reactions,[2] which cannot possibly be achieved by their counterparts with other morphologies/ structures. Furthermore, manipulating 2D metals with penetrated mesopores and good crystallinity is extending the design principle, which endows them with the higher utilization efficiency of the metals (particularly for precious noble metals) and a larger number of (electro)catalytically active sites, thereby enhancing (electro) catalytic activity and stability as well as selected filtration capability (Figure S1, Supporting Information).[3] Moreover, the creation of nanosized mesopores produces confined spaces for catalytic intermediates and optimizes the electronic structure and coordination environment of metal sites, potentially tuning (electro)catalytic selectivity of mesoporous metal catalysts

to more targeted products.[4] Despite being highly desirable, precise design and synthesis of 2D mesoporous metals with well-defined morphology/structure and good crystallinity is still a huge challenge.

Ethanol is one of the best renewable and sustainable power sources for direct alcohol fuel cells, based on its advantages such as low cost, low emission and toxicity, high energy density, and safety for storage.[5] Nevertheless, the anodic half-reaction in a direct ethanol fuel cell (DEFC), the ethanol oxidation reaction (EOR), still suffers from low electrocatalytic kinetics and severe intermediate poisons owing to the lack of highly efficient electrocatalysts.[6] Generally, EOR electrocatalysis follows a dual-path reaction mechanism depending on the electrocatalysts used (Figure S2, Supporting Information).[7] In most cases, ethanol is incompletely electrooxidized into acetic acid (CH3COOH) and/or acetaldehyde (CH3CHO) through the C2 pathway, which lost above 2/3 of the available energy of ethanol. In sharp contrast, complete electrooxidation of ethanol into CO2 (CO3 <sup>2</sup>−) exchanging 12 electrons through the C1 pathway that involves the high-energy-barrier CC bond cleavage is more desirable but greatly suppressed. In this regard, efforts have been proceeded through precisely manipulating

morphology/structure and crystallinity of metal electrocatalysts that kinetically facilitate the removal of poisoning intermediates and promote the CC bond cleavage during EOR electrocatalysis.[8] Unfortunately, the performance gain remains unsatisfactory.

Herein, we present the first bottom-up solution synthesis to prepare 2D mesoporous metals with highly curved nanoplate morphology, penetrated mesochannel, and quasi-single-crystalline structure that enabled superior activity and stability with high C1 product selectivity for EOR electrocatalysis. In the synthesis, amphiphilic cetyltrimethylammonium chloride (CTAC) was utilized as the sacrificial mesopore-forming surfactant, while extra iodine (I<sup>−</sup>) ion concurrently served as the structure/ facet-selective agent. This concurrent effect templated the synthesis of highly curved quasi-single-crystalline mesoporous nanoplates (SMPs), including monometallic Pd, bimetallic PdCu, and trimetallic PdCuAg. This unprecedented type of curved SMPs highlighted the fascinating physicochemical properties of 2D mesoporous metals at macro/mesoscopic and even atomic levels. Serving as the electrocatalyst for EOR electrocatalysis, curved PdCu SMPs displayed excellent performance with a high mass activity of 6.09 A mgPd<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> , remarkable stability (both chronoamperometric and cycling studies), and a superior C1 product selectivity with a high Faraday efficiency (*J*C1) of 72.1%. To the best of our knowledge, curved PdCu SMPs represented one of the most efficient EOR electrocatalysts compared with the state-of-the-art catalysts materials reported previously.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

Here, we focused the characterization on bimetallic PdCu SMPs with a feed ratio of 50:50 because of their perfect morphology/structure and better EOR performance (Figures S3 and S4, Supporting Information). Small-angle X-ray scattering (SAXS) patterns exhibited that both Pd and PdCu SMPs showed a well-defined peak located at ≈1.08 nm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> , indicating they were structurally mesoporous with an average periodicity of 5.8 nm (**Figure 1**a). Powder X-ray diffraction (PXRD) patterns showed the same diffraction peaks for Pd and PdCu SMPs, suggesting alloying Cu did not change the face-centered cubic (fcc) crystalline structure (Figure 1b). In comparison to

**Figure 1.** Sample characterization. a) SAXS and b) PXRD patterns of highly curved Pd and PdCu SMPs. c) SEM images of PdCu SMPs. d) High-magnification SEM images and corresponding schematic drawings of PdCu SMPs with different observation angels. e,f) TEM, g,h) HAADF-STEM, and i) AFM images of PdCu SMPs. j) TEM image, k) corresponding SAED patterns, and l) atomic arrangements (big nanoparticles for Pd and small nanoparticles for Cu) of PdCu SMPs. m) High-resolution TEM image, and n) corresponding FT patterns of PdCu SMPs. o) HAADF-STEM EDX elemental mappings of bimetallic PdCu SMPs.

monometallic Pd, all the PXRD peaks of bimetallic PdCu SMPs shifted positively toward the higher angles, evidencing that Cu having a smaller atomic diameter was successfully alloyed into Pd nanocrystals. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) image showed that the products were 2D nanoplates and curved into nearly bowl-like morphology (Figure 1c). These curved nanoplates were highly uniform and homogeneously dispersed with an average diameter of 85 nm. High-magnification SEM images viewed from the top, bottom, and side angles further confirmed the products were morphologically 2D and highly curved nanoplates (Figure 1d). 2D curved nanoplates were also revealed by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and highangle annular dark-field scanning TEM (HAADF-STEM) observations (Figure 1e–h). There were abundant mesopores within the curved nanoplates. Mesoporous channels were worm-like and radially penetrated from the center of entire nanoplate with a mesopore size of 2.7 nm and shell thickness of 3.0 nm, which coincided with the mesoporous periodicity obtained from the SAXS pattern. The thickness of curved SMPs was measured to be in the range of 7.1 and 8.9 nm, consistent with the data collected from the atomic force microscopy (AFM) image (7.6 nm) (Figure 1i).

The atomic crystalline structure of highly curved PdCu SMPs was further characterized. Surprisingly, each SMP was a quasi-single-crystalline structure, even despite its bimetallic composition, penetrated mesoporosity, and highly curved morphology. The selected-area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern of an SMP observed from the top angle in Figure 1j showed a nearly single set of bright spots, corresponding to the [111] and [002] zone diffractions of the fcc Pd(Cu) (Figure 1k). It confirmed that the SMP was quasi-single-crystalline with (110)-exposed crystalline facet along this observation angle (Figure 1l). The high-resolution TEM image further displayed two distinct lattice fringes with the *d*-spacing distances of 0.219 and 0.189 nm, which were ascribed to (111) and (200) planes of the fcc Pd(Cu) (Figure 1m). Meanwhile, Fourier transform (FT) patterns observed from two locations of an SMP exhibited completely same signals, suggesting a quasisingle-crystalline structure with (110)-exposed facet observed from the top view (Figure 1n). Furthermore, when viewing an SMP from the side angle, a series of spots with the [100] zone diffraction of the fcc Pd(Cu) further confirmed a quasi-singlecrystalline structure of PdCu SMPs (Figure S5, Supporting Information). Besides, HAADF-STEM energy-dispersive X-ray (EDX) elemental mappings showed that both Pd and Cu elements were homogeneously dispersed in the SMPs, indicating a well-alloyed composition (Figure 1o). The Pd/Cu molar ratio of PdCu SPMs was 53.5/46.5, which was matched well to the results collected from inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) (52.1/47.9) and its feed ratio (50:50).

The above advanced characterizations revealed the successful synthesis of PdCu SMPs with 2D nanoplate morphology, highly curved and mesoporous structure, quasi-single-crystallinity atomic structure, and bimetallic PdCu composition. Meanwhile, this strategy was available to trimetallic mesoporous metals, for example, PdCuAg SMPs (Figure S6, Supporting Information). To the best of our knowledge, this is the first example to prepare highly curved, quasi-single-crystalline, 2D mesoporous metals. We deduced that CTAC and extra I− played the concurrent effects in precisely engineering reduction kinetics of Pd and Cu precursors into highly curved SMPs under optimum conditions. In what followed, a series of control experiments were carefully designed to reveal how these parameters optimized the formation of curved SMPs.

First, we explored the effect of CTAC on the morphology and structure of PdCu alloys (**Figure 2**a). In the absence of CTAC, the products were morphologically polyhedral without any penetrated pores, evidencing the importance of CTAC as the mesopore-forming surfactant. With the addition of CTAC, penetrated mesopores were produced accordingly. But, only polycrystalline mesoporous nanospheres (PMSs) were formed in a low CTAC concentration (1.0 × 10<sup>−</sup><sup>3</sup> m), similarly to the mesostructures synthesized by traditional surfactant-template methods.[9] In comparison, when CTAC concentrations were in the range of 2.0–15 × 10<sup>−</sup><sup>3</sup> m, the products evolved into highly curved SMPs, indicating that amphiphilic CTAC was not only utilized as the mesopore-forming surfactant but also concurrently behaved as the structure-selective ligand to prepare 2D nanoplates.[10] However, the higher concentration (>25 × 10−<sup>3</sup> m) disabled the formation of SMPs, possibly because it destroyed the assembled structure of CTAC (above critical concentration). Furthermore, other surfactants, for example, those with the shorter/longer hydrophobic tails and double hydrophobic tails, failed to drive concurrent assembly behaviors and form PdCu SMPs (Figure S7, Supporting Information).

Second, we investigated how extra I− ions optimized the morphology and structure of PdCu SMPs (Figure 2b). In the absence of I−, the products were PMSs as reported in previous works.[11] Upon the addition of extra I−, interestingly, the products quickly evolved into 2D curved nanoplates, although they were still polycrystalline (0.05 × 10−<sup>3</sup> m of I−). Instead, highly curved SMPs were produced in the I− concentrations of 0.2–2.0 × 10−<sup>3</sup> m. Among them, the higher curvature of SMPs with a nanobowl morphology was produced under the higher concentration of I− ion (2.0 × 10−<sup>3</sup> m ). Such a perfect nanostructure has rarely been reported and possibly opens up a new opportunity to evaluate the asymmetry-related applications. However, adding too many I− partially disordered mesoporous structure (5.0 × 10−<sup>3</sup> m ) and even finally destroyed SMP structure (>20 × 10−<sup>3</sup> m ). This was mostly because, in a proper concentration, I− ions can selectively bind with (100) facets of Pd(Cu) and optimize the nucleation kinetics of Pd(Cu) precursors (PdI4 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> instead of PdCl4 <sup>2</sup>−),[12] which concurrently templated the synthesis of 2D SMPs in the presence of CTAC.

Third, other synthesis parameters (pH and temperature) were explored since they can change the assembly behaviors and the nucleation kinetics. As shown in Figure 2c, both lower and higher pH values remarkably destroyed the morphology and structure of PdCu SMPs. This was possibly because more H+ and OH− would change the adsorption strength of I− on Pd and destabilize the nucleation of PdCu SMPs. Similarly, the lower and higher temperatures disfavored the formation of curved SMPs (Figure 2d). Especially, the higher temperature (95 °C) completely destroyed the SMP structure, since it remarkably accelerated nucleation kinetics that disabled the template synthesis of PdCu alloys along CTAC.

The time-dependent TEM observations were further performed to reveal how curved SMPs were formed. As shown in

**Figure 2.** Control experiment. a,b) TEM images of PdCu alloys synthesized with different CTAC amounts (a) and extra I− amounts (b). c,d) TEM images of PdCu alloys synthesized with different pH values (c) and reaction temperatures (d).

**Figure 3**a, upon the addition of a reducing agent, dendritic nanoparticles with an irregular morphology were produced immediately (0.5 min). These dendritic nanoparticles grew bigger along the planar orientation (2 min), breaking the traditional isotropic growth into big nanoparticles. Meanwhile, a curved surface was also formed. The curved nanoplates were gradually evolved into perfect 2D SMPs in the next 30 min, implying a step-by-step epitaxial growth mechanism.

On the basis of the above observations, we proposed that highly curved PdCu SMPs were synthesized through precise engineering of nucleation kinetics of PdCu alloys with CTAC as the surfactant-templating surfactant and extra I− ions as the structure/facet-capping agent. Amphiphilic CTAC was responsible for the growth of penetrated mesoporous channels. During the synthesis, CTAC interacted with PdCl4 <sup>2</sup>− and Cu2+ through the Coulombic and coordination interaction, which further self-assembled into cylindrical micelles.[11] The in situ co-reduction of PdCl4 <sup>2</sup>− and Cu2+ along the surfactant micelles templated the formation of worm-like mesoporous channels. Extra I− ions had two important effects. On the one hand, I− ions assisted self-assembly of CTAC into lamellar micelles, which further confined the planar epitaxial growth of 2D SMPs along cylindrical micelles (Figure 3b).[13] On the other hand, I− ions strongly adsorbed on (100) facets of the fcc Pd(Cu), which thus blocked epitaxial nucleation of Pd(Cu) along (100) facets,[12d,14] as evidenced by TEM observations from the side view. Meanwhile, quaternary group of CTAC favored the adsorption of (110) facets of the fcc Pd(Cu).[15] Therefore, epitaxial nucleation of the fcc Pd(Cu) along selectively exposed (111) facets curved 2D SMPs into the unprecedented type of 2D mesoporous metals (Figure 3c). Besides, I− ions also optimized the reduction potential of PdCl4 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup> (PdI4 <sup>2</sup><sup>−</sup>), kinetically assisting the step-by-step epitaxial nucleation into quasi-single-crystalline structure.

The successful synthesis of highly curved 2D PdCu SMPs provided a direct opportunity to explore its physicochemical properties and further evaluate (electro)catalytic performances. Physiochemical properties of highly curved PdCu SMPs were investigated by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), electrochemical impedance spectra (EIS), and electrochemical CO stripping experiments, which were further compared with its counterparts (PdCu PMSs, Pd SMPs, and commercial Pd/C). High-resolution XPS Pd 3d spectra exhibited two typical peaks that were ascribed to 3d5/2 (low binding energy) and 3d3/2 (high binding energy), respectively (**Figure 4**a). Compared with monometallic Pd (commercial Pd/C and Pd SMPs), bimetallic PdCu SMPs and PMSs exhibited lower binding energies (≈0.2 eV), evidencing the electronic interactions between Pd and Cu with different electronegativities.[16] Meanwhile, the Cu 2P spectra of PdCu SMPs showed similar shifts in binding energies compared to metallic Cu (Figure S8, Supporting Information). Moreover, EIS experiments were investigated in 1.0 m KOH and

**Figure 3.** Formation mechanism. a) TEM images of PdCu SMPs collected under different reaction times. b,c) Schematic illustrations of synthesizing highly curved PdCu SMPs from top (b) and side (c) views.

1.0 m ethanol. As shown in Figure 4b, PdCu SMPs showed the smallest diameter of impedance arc (DIA), followed by an order of PdCu SMPs < PdCu PMSs < Pd SMPs < Pd/C. Obviously, PdCu SMPs possessed the best conductivity and smallest charge-transfer resistance, corresponding to less energy-consuming and better conductive, potentially promoting CC bond cleavage for EOR electrocatalysis.[8f,17]

Electrochemical CO stripping experiments were also studied to imitate the oxidation removal of adsorbed CO (COads) poisons (Figure 4c). In comparison to other catalysts, PdCu SMPs exhibited the lowest peak and onset potentials (Figure 4d), indicating that poisoning COads was easier to be further oxidized (removed) into CO2. [18] Moreover, highly curved PdCu SMPs displayed a higher electrocatalytically active area (ECSA) of 50.1 m2 gPd<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> (Figure S9, Supporting Information). These results confirmed that quasi-single-crystalline and curved mesoporous structure, as well as bimetallic composition endowed PdCu SMPs with synergistic add-in advantages that remarkably accelerated the removal of poisoning COads

intermediates and thus kinetically promoted the electrocatalytic performance of EOR electrocatalysis.

**Figure 5** showed electrocatalytic EOR performances of different catalysts collected in 1.0 m KOH and 1.0 m ethanol. Obviously, highly curved PdCu SMPs displayed the highest EOR current, having the best EOR mass activity of 6.09 A mgPd<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> (Figure 5a). By contrast, the EOR activities of PdCu PMSs, Pd SMPs, and commercial Pd/C were 4.07, 3.21, and 1.55 A mgPd<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> , respectively (Figure S10a, Supporting Information). Meanwhile, bimetallic PdCu SMPs exhibited the negative shifts at the onset potential compared to their counterpart catalysts (Figure S10b, Supporting Information), confirming its morphological/structural and compositional advantages that remarkably promoted the overpotential of EOR electrocatalysis. More interestingly, compared with the forward current density (*I*f), the lower backward current density (*I*b) was achieved for PdCu SMPs. As summarized in Figure 5b, the *I*<sup>f</sup> /*I*b values of PdCu SMPs, PdCu PMSs, and Pd SMPs were 1.25, 1.06, and 0.86, respectively, all of which were remarkably higher than that of commercial Pd/C (0.53).

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.advmat.de**

**Figure 4.** Physiochemical properties. a) High-resolution XPS Pd 3d spectra of commercial Pd/C, Pd SMPs, PdCu PMSs, and PdCu SMPs. b) Electrochemical Nyquist plots of Pd/C, Pd SMPs, PdCu PMSs, and PdCu SMPs recorded in 1.0 m KOH and 1.0 m ethanol. c) Electrochemical CO stripping voltammetry, and d) summary of the peak and onset potentials of Pd/C, Pd SMPs, PdCu PMSs, and PdCu SMPs.

**Figure 5.** Electrocatalytic EOR performance. a) CV curves of commercial Pd/C, Pd SMPs, PdCu PMSs, and PdCu SMPs collected in 1.0 m KOH and 1.0 m ethanol. b) Summarized *I*<sup>f</sup> /*I*b ratios and Faradaic efficiencies toward C1 (purple) and C2 (dark yellow) products of Pd/C, Pd SMPs, PdCu PMSs, and PdCu SMPs collected in 1.0 m KOH and 1.0 m ethanol. c) Comparisons of mass activities and *J*C1 values of PdCu SMPs with those of previously reported binary Pd-based catalysts (Note: partial *J*C1 values are not provided in the literature). d) Electrocatalytic EOR *i-t* chronoamperometric curves of Pd/C, Pd SMPs, PdCu PMSs, and PdCu SMPs. e) Electrocatalytic EOR cycling stability curves of Pd/C and PdCu SMPs.

1521495, 2022, 30, Downloaded from https://advanced.oninelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.20220512 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library or [08/01/2054, See the Terms and Conditions) wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensean Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibra

The higher  $I_{\rm f}/I_{\rm b}$  value indicated better CO tolerance ability and favorable complete oxidation of ethanol through C-C bond cleavage toward C1 products (CO2 and CO32-) during EOR ele ctrocatalysis. [8g,19] We thus carried out the product analysis. As expected, commercial Pd/C with the lowest  $I_f/I_b$  value favored the electrooxidation of ethanol toward C2 products (C2 pathway) with a high  $I_{C2}$  of 90.8% (see detailed C2 pathway in Figure S11, Supporting Information). By contrast, PdCu PMSs and Pd SMPs showed the medium  $I_{C2}$  values of 49.8% and 44.7%, respectively, indicating both 2D quasi-single-crystalline mesoporosity and PdCu alloy promoted EOR electrocatalysis toward C1 products. More impressively, a very low  $I_{C2}$  value of 27.9% was obtained for PdCu SMPs, indicating its  $I_{C1}$  value as high as 72.1%. In other words, 72.1% of ethanol was electrochemically oxidized into CO<sub>2</sub> (or CO<sub>3</sub><sup>2-</sup>) over curved PdCu SMPs (see detailed C1 pathway in Figure S12, Supporting Information). The results further highlighted that, during EOR electrocatalysis, PdCu SMPs with structural and compositional synergies remarkably promoted the C-C bond cleavage and enabled the high C1 pathway selectivity. Specifically, when further being compared with previously reported state-of-the-art binary Pd-based catalysts, curved PdCu SMPs represented one of the best EOR electrocatalysts (both activity and C1 selectivity), indicating its high efficiency in EOR electrocatalysis (Figure 5c; Table S1, Supporting Information).

Another severe challenge for EOR electrocatalysts was their poor operation stability owing to the rapid poisons by carbonaceous intermediates. [2j,17] Thus, we further investigated the EOR stability of highly curved PdCu SMPs. Two methods

were performed as followed. First, the chronoamperometric (i-t) stability was assessed by monitoring the EOR current at -0.2 V (Figure 5d). Commercial Pd/C quickly declined its EOR activity and became almost inactive after 5000 s. By contrast, the activity losses for Pd SMPs and PdCu PMSs were moderate, indicating 2D SMP structure and bimetallic composition favored the removal of poisoning intermediates and enhanced their EOR stabilities. More impressively, PdCu SMPs with structural and compositional add-in synergies exhibited a remarkable EOR stability, which retained a high EOR activity of 0.58 A mg<sub>Pd</sub><sup>-1</sup>, even after performing EOR electrocatalysis for 15 000 s. Second, the cycling stability was evaluated by continuously scanning CV cycles at 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. As summarized in Figure 5e, the mass activity of Pd/C was sharply decreased to 0.54 A mg<sup>-1</sup> for 10 000 cycles. In contrast, PdCu SMPs mildly declined their mass activity and retained a very high activity of 3.32 A mg<sub>Pd</sub><sup>-1</sup>, even for 20 000 cycles. Meanwhile, both the structure and composition of curved PdCu SMPs retained well (Figure S13, Supporting Information), further highlighting its operation stability for EOR electrocatalysis.

Electrocatalytic EOR kinetics were finally carried out to reveal the high efficiency of 2D PdCu SMPs. We first performed EOR electrocatalysis under different scan rates ( $\nu$ ). Obviously, with the increase of  $\nu$ , mass activities were enhanced accordingly (Figure S14, Supporting Information). When summarizing the relationship between mass activity and  $\nu$  (square root of  $\nu$ ), all four catalysts exhibited two nearly linear slopes, confirming the diffusion-controlled kinetics (**Figure 6**a). [20] Amongst all

**Figure 6.** Electrocatalytic EOR mechanism. a) The relationships between mass activities and the square root of scan rates. b) The relationships between mass activities and 1/T. c,d) Schematic illustrations for possible C1 product pathway within quasi-single-crystalline concave mesoporous channels of PdCu SMPs for EOR electrocatalysis.

the catalysts, curved PdCu SMPs displayed higher slopes, corresponding to the faster diffusion rates of the reactants. When further compared the slopes in lower and higher *v* (*k*<sup>1</sup> and *k*2), both Pd and PdCu SMPs achieved the low *k*1/*k*2 values, which were even lower than that of supported Pd (Pd/C) with a lower mass activity, highlighting the accelerated removal (further oxidation) ability of poisoning intermediates absorbed on the catalysts. Moreover, we investigated the relationships between activities and temperature (1/*T*) (Figure S15, Supporting Information). According to the Arrhenius equation, highly curved PdCu SMPs possessed the lowest activation energy (*E*a) of 17.24 kJ mol<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> , which was remarkably lower than other catalysts (Figure 6b). It demonstrated that PdCu SMPs had the smallest energy barrier to electrooxidize ethanol, which was also associated with higher mass activity and more C1 products.[8j,20b]

According to the above electrochemical investigations, we proposed a possible EOR mechanism of highly curved PdCu SMPs, including enhanced catalytic activity and stability and optimized catalytic selectivity (C1 selectivity). On the one hand, 2D mesoporous nanoplates exposed more sites of active metal atoms, while quasi-single-crystalline structure accelerated the electron/mass transports. Moreover, highly curved morphology effectively inhibited electrocatalytic corrosion of carbon support.[21] Meanwhile, bimetallic alloys produced a well-known bifunctional effect, in which Cu not only electronically facilitated the desorption of poisoning COads on Pd (PdCOads) but also functionally favored the adsorption of OH group (CuOHads) to optimize the further oxidation of COads intermediates. Therefore, structural/morphological and compositional synergies of curved PdCu SMPs remarkably enhanced anti-poisoning ability and thus promoted EOR activity and stability. On the other hand, quasi-single-crystalline mesoporosity provided numerous low-coordinated sites and changed the reactivity of ethanol on its surface. Highly concave mesoporosity favored the adsorption of ethanol on adjacent Pd sites, which thus facilitated the CC bond cleavage (C1 pathway) and inhibited the direct dehydrogenation (C2 pathway). Meanwhile, abundant CuOHads accelerated the further oxidation of poisoning COads on adjacent Pd, promoting the C1 pathway selectivity during EOR electrocatalysis (Figure 6c,d).

#### **3. Conclusion**

We have developed a facile solution synthesis of 2D highly curved metal SMPs as the highly active, stable, and selective electrocatalyst for EOR electrocatalysis. The synthesis relied on precise control of the step-by-step epitaxial nucleation of Pd/Cu precursors around cylinder micelles assembled by amphiphilic CTAC. Extra I− ion concurrently severed as the structure/facetselective agent to drive 2D growth of quasi-single-crystalline and highly curved Pd/Cu around the CTAC template. Highly curved PdCu SMPs exhibited remarkable catalytic activity and stability as well as high C1 pathway selectivity in EOR electrocatalysis by kinetically facilitating the removal of poisoning Pd–COads intermediates as compared to other counterpart catalysts and the state-of-the-art catalysts. The high C1 product selectivity was ascribed to 2D quasi-single-crystalline mesoporosity that optimized the adsorption of ethanol on adjacent Pd sites within concave mesoporous channels and thus promoted the CC bond cleavage with adjacent CuOHads. We expect this study can not only serve as an efficient method to explore 2D mesoporous metals but also provide a new route to enhance catalytic activity/stability and promote selectivity in (electro) catalysis and beyond.

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

The authors are grateful for financial support from the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities. The authors also thank Dr. Yanping Huang from Center of Engineering Experimental Teaching, School of Chemical Engineering, Sichuan University for the help of SEM/TEM images.

#### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

#### **Keywords**

2D materials, catalytic selectivity, ethanol oxidation reaction, mesoporous chemistry, metals

> Received: April 21, 2022 Revised: May 23, 2022 Published online: June 22, 2022

- [1] a) T. Ling, J. J. Wang, H. Zhang, S. T. Song, Y. Z. Zhou, J. Zhao, X. W. Du, *Adv. Mater.* **2015**, *27*, 5396; b) A. Gupta, T. Sakthivel, S. Seal, *Prog. Mater. Sci.* **2015**, *73*, 44; c) S. Hu, X. Wang, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2013**, *42*, 5577; d) V. Nicolosi, M. Chhowalla, M. G. Kanatzidis, M. S. Strano, J. N. Coleman, *Science* **2013**, *340*, 1226419; e) M. Chhowalla, H. S. Shin, G. Eda, L.-J. Li, K. P. Loh, H. Zhang, *Nat. Chem.* **2013**, *5*, 263; f) Z. Cheng, B. Huang, Y. Pi, L. Li, Q. Shao, X. Huang, *Natl. Sci. Rev.* **2020**, *7*, 1340; g) C. Tan, X. Cao, X.-J. Wu, Q. He, J. Yang, X. Zhang, J. Chen, W. Zhao, S. Han, G.-H. Nam, M. Sindoro, H. Zhang, *Chem. Rev.* **2017**, *117*, 6225; h) M. A. Zeb Gul Sial, M. A. Ud Din, X. Wang, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2018**, *47*, 6175.
- [2] a) X. Huang, S. Tang, X. Mu, Y. Dai, G. Chen, Z. Zhou, F. Ruan, Z. Yang, N. Zheng, *Nat. Nanotechnol.* **2011**, *6*, 28; b) F. Saleem, Z. Zhang, B. Xu, X. Xu, P. He, X. Wang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 18304; c) Q. Yao, B. Huang, N. Zhang, M. Sun, Q. Shao, X. Huang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 13983; d) L. Bu, N. Zhang, S. Guo, X. Zhang, J. Li, J. Yao, T. Wu, G. Lu, J.-Y. Ma, D. Su, X. Huang,

*Science* **2016**, *354*, 1410; e) M. Luo, Z. Zhao, Y. Zhang, Y. Sun, Y. Xing, F. Lv, Y. Yang, X. Zhang, S. Hwang, Y. Qin, J.-Y. Ma, F. Lin, D. Su, G. Lu, S. Guo, *Nature* **2019**, *574*, 81; f) J. Liu, W. Niu, G. Liu, B. Chen, J. Huang, H. Cheng, D. Hu, J. Wang, Q. Liu, J. Ge, P. Yin, F. Meng, Q. Zhang, L. Gu, Q. Lu, H. Zhang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2021**, *143*, 4387; g) D. Xu, X. Liu, H. Lv, Y. Liu, S. Zhao, M. Han, J. Bao, J. He, B. Liu, *Chem. Sci.* **2018**, *9*, 4451; h) H. L. Qin, D. Wang, Z. L. Huang, D. M. Wu, Z. C. Zeng, B. Ren, K. Xu, J. Jin, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 12544; i) J. W. Hong, Y. Kim, D. H. Wi, S. Lee, S. U. Lee, Y. W. Lee, S. I. Choi, S. W. Han, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 2753; j) W. Huang, X. Kang, C. Xu, J. Zhou, J. Deng, Y. Li, S. Cheng, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1706962.

- [3] a) B. Jiang, Y. Guo, J. Kim, A. E. Whitten, K. Wood, K. Kani, A. E. Rowan, J. Henzie, Y. Yamauchi, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 12434; b) S. Wang, Q. Mao, H. Ren, W. Wang, Z. Wang, Y. Xu, X. Li, L. Wang, H. Wang, *ACS Nano* **2022**, *16*, 2978; c) Y. Li, Y. Liu, J. Li, D. Xiong, X. Chen, M. Liu, Z. Zhong, V. Malgras, Y. Bando, Y. Yamauchi, J. Xu, *Mater. Horiz.* **2020**, *7*, 489.
- [4] a) Q. Lu, J. Rosen, Y. Zhou, G. S. Hutchings, Y. C. Kimmel, J. G. Chen, F. Jiao, *Nat. Commun.* **2014**, *5*, 3242; b) A. S. Hall, Y. Yoon, A. Wuttig, Y. Surendranath, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 14834; c) K. D. Yang, W. R. Ko, J. H. Lee, S. J. Kim, H. Lee, M. H. Lee, K. T. Nam, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, 796; d) T. T. H. Hoang, S. Verma, S. Ma, T. T. Fister, J. Timoshenko, A. I. Frenkel, P. J. A. Kenis, A. A. Gewirth, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 5791; e) Y. Feng, C.-Q. Cheng, C.-Q. Zou, X.-L. Zheng, J. Mao, H. Liu, Z. Li, C.-K. Dong, X.-W. Du, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 19297; f) H. Lv, L. Sun, D. Xu, W. Li, B. Huang, B. Liu, *CCS Chem.* **2021**, *3*, 3071; g) H. Lv, H. Qin, M. Sun, F. Jia, B. Huang, B. Liu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202114539.
- [5] a) J. Goldemberg, *Science* **2007**, *315*, 808; b) M. Z. F. Kamarudin, S. K. Kamarudin, M. S. Masdar, W. R. W. Daud, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2013**, *38*, 9438; c) B. C. Ong, S. K. Kamarudin, S. Basri, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2017**, *42*, 10142.
- [6] a) M. K. Debe, *Nature* **2012**, *486*, 43; b) E. Antolini, *J. Power Sources* **2007**, *170*, 1; c) Y. Lu, S. Du, R. Steinberger-Wilckens, *Appl. Catal. B Environ.* **2016**, *199*, 292; d) R. Rizo, R. M. Arán-Ais, E. Padgett, D. A. Muller, M. J. Lázaro, J. Solla-Gullón, J. M. Feliu, E. Pastor, H. D. Abruña, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 3791.
- [7] a) A. Ferre-Vilaplana, C. Buso-Rogero, J. M. Feliu, E. Herrero, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2016**, *120*, 11590; b) C. Bianchini, P. K. Shen, *Chem. Rev.* **2009**, *109*, 4183; c) H. Mistry, A. S. Varela, S. Kühl, P. Strasser, B. R. Cuenya, *Nat. Rev. Mater.* **2016**, *1*, 16009.
- [8] a) J. Zhang, J. Ye, Q. Fan, Y. Jiang, Y. Zhu, H. Li, Z. Cao, Q. Kuang, J. Cheng, J. Zheng, Z. Xie, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 11232; b) Y. Wang, M. Zheng, Y. Li, C. Ye, J. Chen, J. Ye, Q. Zhang, J. Li, Z. Zhou, X.-Z. Fu, J. Wang, S.-G. Sun, D. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202115735; c) A. Kowal, M. Li, M. Shao, K. Sasaki, M. B. Vukmirovic, J. Zhang, N. S. Marinkovic, P. Liu, A. I. Frenkel, R. R. Adzic, *Nat. Mater.* **2009**, *8*, 325; d) D. Du, Q. Geng, L. Ma, S. Ren, J.-X. Li, W. Dong, Q. Hua, L. Fan, R. Shao, X. Wang, C. Li,

Y. Yamauchi, *Chem. Sci.* **2022**, *13*, 3819; e) W. Huang, X.-Y. Ma, H. Wang, R. Feng, J. Zhou, P. N. Duchesne, P. Zhang, F. Chen, N. Han, F. Zhao, J. Zhou, W.-B. Cai, Y. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1703057; f) Y. Zhu, L. Bu, Q. Shao, X. Huang, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 6607; g) F. Lv, W. Zhang, M. Sun, F. Lin, T. Wu, P. Zhou, W. Yang, P. Gao, B. Huang, S. Guo, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2021**, *11*, 2100187; h) Y. Qin, H. Huang, W. Yu, H. Zhang, Z. Li, Z. Wang, J. Lai, L. Wang, S. Feng, *Adv. Sci.* **2022**, *9*, 2103722; i) Y. Fang, D. Cao, Y. Shi, S. Guo, Q. Wang, G. Zhang, P. Cui, S. Cheng, *J. Phys. Chem. Lett.* **2021**, *12*, 6773; j) Q. Chang, S. Kattel, X. Li, Z. Liang, B. M. Tackett, S. R. Denny, P. Zhang, D. Su, J. G. Chen, Z. Chen, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 7618; k) M. Li, D. A. Cullen, K. Sasaki, N. S. Marinkovic, K. More, R. R. Adzic, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 132; l) N. Erini, V. Beermann, M. Gocyla, M. Gliech, M. Heggen, R. E. Dunin-Borkowski, P. Strasser, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, 6533; m) S.-H. Han, H.-M. Liu, P. Chen, J.-X. Jiang, Y. Chen, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1801326.

- [9] a) H. Lv, L. Sun, L. Zou, D. Xu, H. Yao, B. Liu, *Chem. Sci.* **2019**, *10*, 1986; b) X. Huang, Y. Li, Y. Chen, E. Zhou, Y. Xu, H. Zhou, X. Duan, Y. Huang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2013**, *52*, 2520.
- [10] a) S. Liu, J. Zhang, R. Dong, P. Gordiichuk, T. Zhang, X. Zhuang, Y. Mai, F. Liu, A. Herrmann, X. Feng, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 12516; b) S. Liu, F. Wang, R. Dong, T. Zhang, J. Zhang, X. Zhuang, Y. Mai, X. Feng, *Adv. Mater.* **2016**, *28*, 8365.
- [11] H. Lv, F. Lv, H. Qin, X. Min, L. Sun, N. Han, D. Xu, Y. Li, B. Liu, *CCS Chem.* **2022**, *4*, 1376.
- [12] a) M. Chen, B. Wu, J. Yang, N. Zheng, *Adv. Mater.* **2012**, *24*, 862; b) Y. Shi, Z. Lyu, M. Zhao, R. Chen, Q. N. Nguyen, Y. Xia, *Chem. Rev.* **2021**, *121*, 649; c) H. Zhang, M. Jin, Y. Xiong, B. Lim, Y. Xia, *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2013**, *46*, 1783; d) W. Niu, L. Zhang, G. Xu, *ACS Nano* **2010**, *4*, 1987.
- [13] a) S. Ghosh, L. Manna, *Chem. Rev.* **2018**, *118*, 7804; b) L. Chen, F. Ji, Y. Xu, L. He, Y. Mi, F. Bao, B. Sun, X. Zhang, Q. Zhang, *Nano Lett.* **2014**, *14*, 7201.
- [14] H.-X. Zhang, H. Wang, Y.-S. Re, W.-B. Cai, *Chem. Commun.* **2012**, *48*, 8362.
- [15] D. Xu, H. Lv, H. Jin, Y. Liu, Y. Ma, M. Han, J. Bao, B. Liu, *J. Phys. Chem. Lett.* **2019**, *10*, 663.
- [16] R. Zhou, X. Fan, X. Ke, J. Xu, X. Zhao, L. Jia, B. Pan, N. Han, L. Li, X. Liu, J. Luo, H. Lin, Y. Li, *Nano Lett.* **2021**, *21*, 4092.
- [17] H. Lv, Y. Wang, A. Lopes, D. Xu, B. Liu, *Appl. Catal. B Environ.* **2019**, *249*, 116.
- [18] L. Chen, L. Lu, H. Zhu, Y. Chen, Y. Huang, Y. Li, L. Wang, *Nat. Commun.* **2017**, *8*, 14136.
- [19] a) Y. Wu, D. Wang, G. Zhou, R. Yu, C. Chen, Y. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2014**, *136*, 11594; b) B. Narayanamoorthy, K. K. R. Datta, M. Eswaramoorthy, S. Balaji, *ACS Catal.* **2014**, *4*, 3621.
- [20] a) S. T. Nguyen, H. M. Law, H. T. Nguyen, N. Kristian, S. Wang, S. H. Chan, X. Wang, *Appl. Catal. B Environ.* **2009**, *91*, 507; b) H. Lv, L. Sun, D. Xu, B. Liu, *Sci. Bull.* **2020**, *65*, 1823.
- [21] H. Lv, D. Xu, L. Sun, J. Henzie, A. Lopes, Q. Gu, Y. Yamauchi, B. Liu, *Nano Lett.* **2019**, *19*, 3379.