---
source: Qiu 等 - 2024 - Synergistic Effect of Trimetallic PdCuIn Nanoparticles in Ethanol and Formate Oxidation Reaction for.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 83.342s
generated: 2026-01-09T05:06:04.894988Z
---

www.entechnol.de

Check for updates

# Synergistic Effect of Trimetallic PdCuIn Nanoparticles in Ethanol and Formate Oxidation Reaction for Remarkable **Catalytic Performance**

Lizhu Qiu, Yi Tao, Tao Ma,\* and Feng Liang\*

Direct liquid fuel cells (DLFC) are regarded as attractive energy devices with their advantages of sustainability and eco-friendly operation. Pd-based materials have been recognized as ideal catalysts for anodic oxidation of DLFC. Although reasonably regulating the structure of Pd-based catalysts to achieve remarkable catalytic performance, it is not clear about the combined effects of d-band center and charge transfer, which are the crucial impactors for catalytic activity. Herein, a facile method to synthesize trimetallic PdCuIn nanoparticles (PdCuIn NPs) for ethanol and formate oxidation reactions (EOR and FOR, respectively) is reported. PdCuIn NPs exhibits bifunctional catalytic activities for both EOR and FOR, with mass activities of 16 000 and 15 500 mA  $mg_{Pd}^{-1}$ , respectively, which are much better than those of commercial Pd/C catalysts. Comparing to the bimetallic nanoparticles (PdCu or PdIn NPs), additional Cu or In enhances the electron transfer and achieves a suitable d-band center, resulting in excellent performance. This work synthesizes a highly active catalyst for both EOR and FOR, but also provides facile strategy of balancing the d-band center and charge transfer for high catalytic performance.

### 1. Introduction

Direct liquid fuel cells (DLFC), such as direct ethanol fuel cell (DEFC) and direct formate fuel cell (DFFC), have been recognized as promising alternatives to hydrogen-based fuel cells because of their high energy density, low-cost, and easy storage and transportation. [1] However, the commercialization of DLFC is hindered by the sluggish anodic reaction kinetics, such as the ethanol oxidation reaction (EOR) and formate oxidation reaction (FOR), at the anode, largely because of the lack of highly active anodic catalysts.<sup>[2]</sup> Although Pd is commonly used an electrocatalyst for EOR and FOR, it still suffers from low activity, high cost, and poor stability.[3] In general, the EOR on Pd under alkaline condition take place through the reaction process of

L. Qiu, Y. Tao, T. Ma, F. Liang School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Wuhan University of Science and Technology Wuhan 430081, China E-mail: taoma01@wust.edu.cn; feng\_liang@whu.edu.cn

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/ente.202301618.

DOI: 10.1002/ente.202301618

Energy Technol. 2024, 12, 2301618

The State Key Laboratory of Refractories and Metallurgy

 $(CH_3CH_2OH + OH^- \rightarrow CH_3CO_{ads} + e^-)$  $CH_{3}CO_{ads} \rightarrow CH_{3ads} + CO_{ads}, \quad CH_{3ads} + \\$  $OH^- \rightarrow CO_{ads} + e^-$ ,  $CO_{ads} + OH^- \rightarrow CO_2 + e^-$ H<sub>2</sub>O).<sup>[4]</sup> For the FOR on the Pd, it through the reaction mechanism of (HCOO<sup>-</sup> →  $H_{ads} + COO_{ads}^-$ ,  $H_{ads} + OH^- \rightarrow H_2O + e^-$ ,  $COO_{ads}^- \rightarrow CO_2 + e^-$ ).<sup>[5]</sup> However, the active sites of Pd catalysts will be poisoned by CO<sub>ads</sub> or H<sub>das</sub> released from the process of anodic reaction, leading to a sharp decline in activity. So Pd-based catalysts need performance improvements in terms of activity and durability for their successful application in alkaline.

It has been confirmed that the adsorption/desorption behaviors, the key to determining catalytic activity, are fundamentally governed by the surface structure of catalysts, especially the electronic structure. Recent research has focused on the development of multicomponent metal catalysts to modify the Pd electronic structure and

improve the Pd catalytic efficiency. [6] Indeed, alloying Pd with other metals (M) is an effective strategy for optimizing the adsorption/desorption behaviors toward reaction intermediates owing to the modification of the electronic structure for a reasonable d-band center of Pd-based alloys.<sup>[7]</sup> For example, doping M with small lattice constants (such as Cu, Co, and Ni) into Pd will downshift the d-band center according to the Hammer-Nørskov reactivity model.<sup>[8]</sup> As a result, the shifts in the d-band center contribute to weakening the adsorption of both reactants and intermediates on the catalyst surface, which could enhance the electrocatalytic activity of alloyed Pd-based catalysts compared with their monometallic catalysts. [7b] Moreover, the local charge transfer can also be accelerated by introducing M with low electronegativity (such as Ag, Zn, and In) into Pd-based electrocatalysts. [9] In contrast, the adsorption/desorption behaviors can also be regulated by alloying Pd with oxophilic metals (such as Au, Cu, Ru, Rh, and Sn).<sup>[5,10]</sup> Because it could provide an additional active site for the production of free OH radicals, which are highly reactive toward H<sub>ads</sub> and CO<sub>ads</sub>, resulting in their oxidative removal from the surface of catalysts, thereby facilitating the anti-poisoning of intermediates.<sup>[11]</sup> It is due to the fact that by changing d-band center, boosting charge transfer, and tuning electronic properties through alloying other corresponding metals into Pd-based catalysts, the catalytic performance could be enhanced.[12]

21944296, 2024, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ente.202301618 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [08/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Among the various doped metals, Cu is known for being highly oxophilic and easy to alloy with Pd.[8a,10d] Additionally, In has a low electronetativity, which promotes the charge transfer between Pd.[9c] Thus, combining Cu and In with Pd to form trimetallic alloys, not only reduces the use of noble metals, but also integrates three different metallic advantages, and shows superior catalytic performance than the corresponding mono and bimetallic NPs owing to synergistic effects. However, which one of the aforementioned several features plays the major role, or if there is a balance to optimizing the Pd-based catalysts for EOR or FOR, is a thought-provoking issue.

The long-term goal of our research group is to develop bi- or tri-metallic NPs that could improve catalytic performance through the synergistic effect of each metallic element.[13] Herein, we synthesized trimetallic PdCuIn nanoparticles (PdCuIn NPs) through a facile hydrothermal method, aiming to unravel the impacts of d-band center shift and charge transfer in the context of EOR and FOR. The as-synthesized PdCuIn NPs exhibits remarkable mass activities of 16 000 and 15 500 mA mgPd-<sup>1</sup> for EOR and FOR, respectively, surpassing the performance of both as-prepared bimetallic (PdCu and PdIn) NPs and comical Pd/C catalysts. This improvement in

catalytic activity can be attributed to the accelerated charge transfer kinetics and a more reasonable d-band center achieved through the incorporation of a third metal. Consequently, this modification leads to reduced electrochemical impedance and enhanced resistance against poisoning by CO-like intermediates. These findings underscore the critical role of balancing charge transfer and d-band center shift in enhancing the catalytic performance of trimetallic Pd-based catalysts.

## 2. Results and Discussion

#### 2.1. Synthesis and Characterization of Catalysts

The PdCuIn NPs was synthesized by co-reduction of PdCl2, CuCl2, and InCl3 mixtures with trisodium citrate in the presence of EDTA, and PVP was used as a dispersing agent. As shown in Figure 1a, the typical low-magnification TEM image of PdCuIn NPs exhibits a well-separated sphere morphology with an average particle size of 53 nm (shown in Figure S1a, Supporting Information). The selected-area electron diffraction (SEAD) image (inset of Figure 1a) reveals the regular square array, indicating the PdCuIn NPs has a high crystallization degree with

Figure 1. Characterization of the PdCuIn NPs of a) low-magnification TEM image with SEAD image inset, b) high-magnification TEM image and corresponding HRTEM image inset, c) HAADF-STEM image (EDX line scan inset), and d) corresponding EDX mapping images of PdCuIn NPs in (c).

www.entechnol.de

21944926, 2024, 6, Dwnloaded from https://onlinelbary.wiley.com/do/10.1002/ente.20231618 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0801/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelbtrary.wiely.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

metallic face-centered cubic (fcc). HRTEM images (Figure 1b) further show the lattice fringes of PdCuIn NPs. The observed interplanar distance of 2.24 Å (shown in the inset of Figure 1c) is close to but slightly shorter than that of PdIn alloys (2.30 Å), suggesting the shrinkage of the PdIn crystal lattice by the substitution of In with Cu.<sup>[14]</sup> It could also be argued that the large In atoms partly replaced the Cu in PdCu alloys (2.18 Å), resulting in the lattice expansion. [8a] The high-angle annular dark-field scanning TEM (HAADF-STEM) image (Figure 1c) and the energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX) scan line (inset of Figure 1c) demonstrate the existence of Pd, Cu, and In on the surface of PdCuIn NPs. Remarkably, it can be obviously found in EDX mapping profiles (Figure 1f) that Pd (green), Cu (yellow), and In (red) are enriched in some areas of the PdCuIn NPs, which further confirms the ternary component of PdCuIn

In addition, by utilizing the same synthetic protocol, the PdCu and PdIn NPs were prepared in the absence of InCl3 and CuCl2 precursors, respectively, as shown in Figure S2 and S3, Supporting Information. We just ignore the CuIn NPs here because it has no catalytic activity for EOR and FOR due to the lack of Pd active site. The as-prepared bimetallic PdCu and PdIn NPs also exhibits the sphere architecture (Figure S2a and S3a, Supporting Information) with particles sizes of 52 and 62 nm (Figure S2b and S3b, Supporting Information), respectively, which are close to that of PdCuIn NPs. The similar size of NPs could exclude the size effects of catalysts for catalytic performance, which is also ignored in later discussion. The HRTEM, SAED, and EDX mapping results demonstrate that the bimetallic structures of PdCu NPs (Figure S2c-e, Supporting Information) and PdIn NPs (Figure S3c-e, Supporting Information) are successfully prepared.

The crystal structure information of the catalysts were detected by XRD. The typical XRD patterns of PdCuIn, PdCu, and PdIn NPs samples are shown in Figure 2a. Four diffraction peaks located at 40.20°, 46.8°, 68.3°, and 82.2° are clearly seen, which are ascribed to the (111), (200), (220), and (311) crystal planes of the face-centered cubic (fcc) Pd nanocrystal. As shown in Figure 2b, it can be seen that the diffraction peak of PdIn NPs slightly shifts toward lower angles as compared to the standard pattern of fcc Pd (87-0643), indicating the slight lattice expansion in the PdIn NPs due to the substitution of smaller Pd atoms with larger In atoms. [10b,15] In contrast, the diffraction peaks of PdCu NPs slightly shift to higher angles, owing to the shrinkage of the lattice parameter resulting from the smaller Cu alloying into Pd. [12,16] This alloyed structure with diffraction peak positive shift (PdCu NPs) can downshift the d-band center of Pd, resulting in the acceleration of overall electronic charge transfer, which likely enhances the electrocatalytic activity of PdCu NPs. In addition, the diffraction peaks of PdCuIn NPs have the highest shift, compared with those in the pattern of PdCu NPs. It indicates that the introduction of the third element (In) further boosts the downshift of the d-band, which is consistent with the HRTEM results shown in Figure 1b. Because the doped In promotes more atoms (Cu) alloying with Pd, which can also be confirmed by the appearance of a negatively shifted diffraction peak at 43.2° assigned to Cu (111) compared with pure Cu (43.3) (PDF #89-2838).[13a]

The chemical composition and the electronic structure of the as-prepared catalysts were also investigated by XPS. Figure 2c shows the XPS survey spectra of PdCuIn, PdCu, and PdIn NPs, revealing the existence of Pd, Cu, and (or) In elements in catalysts, and further confirming the tri/bimetallic structure. Two pairs of XPS Pd 3d peaks can be deconvoluted for PdCuIn, PdCu, and PdIn NPs, in which major Pd<sup>0</sup> suppresses minor  $Pd^{2+}$  species (Figure 2d). The  $3d_{5/2}$  peaks of  $Pd^{0}$  in PdCuIn, PdCu, and PdIn NPs are located at 334.92, 335.23, and 334.72 eV, respectively, and with 0.52, 0.23, and 0.74 negatively shift than those of Pd/C at 335.46 eV due to the difference in electronegativity of Pd (2.20), Cu (1.90), and In (1.78). These shifts indicate alloying In within PdCu to downshift the Fermi level of Pd due to the strong electronic interactions involving Pd, Cu, and In. Optimal Fermi levels would weaken the absorption of intermediates and reactants on Pd, thus, improving EOR (or FOR) performances accordingly.<sup>[17]</sup> Meanwhile, compared to Cu 2p in PdCu NPs, only a nominally reduced Cu<sup>0</sup> is seen in PdCuIn NPs. The dominant presence of Cu<sup>2+</sup> and sat. (Cu(OH)2) species in ternary PdCuIn NPs suggests that

#### 2.2. Electrocatalytic Activity and Stability of Catalysts for EOR and FOR

EOR or FOR.[17]

oxygen (O) prefers to adsorb on the surface Cu sites.[17]

Ideally, the favorable adsorption of O-containing species (Cu–OH)

could accelerate the further oxidation of CO<sub>ads</sub> and H<sub>ads</sub> and fur-

ther correspond to the enhanced performance in electrocatalytic

To further understand the superior catalytic performance of trimetallic PdCuIn NPs for EOR and FOR, corresponding bimetallic nanoparticles (PdIn, PdCu NPs) and commercial Pd black (Pd/C, as a control) were also investigated. First of all, the electrochemical active surface areas (ECSAs) of as-prepared catalysts were evaluated by cyclic voltammetry (CV) scans. As shown in Figure 3a, the quintessential CV curves of PdCuIn, PdCu, PdIn NPs, and Pd/C were collected in N2-saturated 1.0 M KOH with a scan rate of  $50\,\mathrm{mV}\,\mathrm{s}^{-1}$ . During the positive scans, the oxidation peaks appear at  $-0.1 \,\mathrm{V}$ , owing to the formation of surface Pd oxides. During the negative scans, the peaks around  $-0.4\,\mathrm{V}$  correspond to the reduction of Pd oxides.<sup>[3b,13a]</sup> The ECSAs were calculated based on the reduction peak areas. The PdCuIn NPs has the highest ECSA of  $250\,\mathrm{m}^2\,\mathrm{g_{Pd}}^{-1}$ , which is almost 1.2, 7.6, and 3.6 times higher than that of PdCu NPs  $(204 \text{ m}^2 \text{ g}_{Pd}^{-1})$ , PdIn NPs  $(33 \text{ m}^2 \text{ g}_{Pd}^{-1})$ , and Pd/C  $(70 \text{ m}^2 \text{ g}_{Pd}^{-1})$ . A higher value of ECSA indicates more accessible active sites and better catalytic performance. The enhanced ECSA of PdCuIn NPs implies that the alloyed structure, especially the incorporation of Cu in Pd-based NPs, facilitated the electrochemical adsorption of OH<sub>ads</sub> and reduction of Pd oxides on nanocatalysts, thus enhancing the catalytic performance for EOR or FOR. [13a]

The electrocatalytic activities of Pd-based nanocatalysts, as shown in Figure 3b for the EOR and Figure 3c for FOR, were evaluated in 1.0 M KOH with 1.0 M ethanol and in 1.0 M KOH with 1.0 M formate. The results were normalized to the Pd mass based on ICP-OES (Table S1, Supporting Information). The CVs of different catalysts in a  $1.0\,\mathrm{M}$  KOH aqueous solution with  $1.0\,\mathrm{M}$ ethanol display one peak in the forward scan and one peak in

21944296, 2024, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ente.202301618 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [08/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms/

-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

www.advancedsciencenews.com

Figure 2. XRD spectra of: a) wide-angle XRD pattern and b) XRD pattern in 38–44° of PdCuIn, PdCu, and PdIn NPs. XPS spectra of: c) wide scans of PdCuIn, PdCu, and PdIn NPs and their high resolution region of: d) Pd 3d, e) Cu 2p and f) In 3d.

backward scan, which are ascribed to the oxidation of freshly chemisorbed species from ethanol adsorption and the removal of residual carbonaceous species formed in the forward scan, respectively. [3a,3b] The peak current in the forward scan reflects the EOR performance and is thus used to calculate the specific and mass activities of catalysts. Figure 3d summarizes the ECSAs and mass activities (for EOR and FOR) of different catalysts, which show the same tendency. The PdCuIn NPs exhibits the

highest mass activity of 15540 mA  $mg_{Pd}^{-1}$ , which is much higher than that of PdCu NPs (2579 mA  $mg_{Pd}^{-1}$ ), PdIn NPs (330 mA  $mg_{Pd}^{-1}$ ), Pd/C (1589 mA  $mg_{Pd}^{-1}$ ), and other Pd-based catalysts (see Table S2, Supporting Information). Similar to the catalytic activities for EOR, the trimetallic PdCuIn NPs have much higher catalytic activity for FOR (15569 mA  $mg_{Pd}^{-1}$ ) than their binary (2638 mA  $mg_{Pd}^{-1}$  for PdCu NPs and 277 mA  $mg_{Pd}^{-1}$  for PdIn NPs), unitary catalysts

21944296, 2024, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ente.202301618 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [08/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Figure 3. Electrochemical EOR and FOR performances. CV curves of PdCuIn, PdCu, PdIn NPs and Pd/C in a) 1.0 M KOH, b) 1.0 M KOH with 1 M ethanol and c) 1.0 M KOH with 1 M HCOOK, d) comparison of the ECSA and mass activity of EOR and FOR for the as-prepared PdCuIn, PdCu, PdIn NPs and Pd/C calculated according (a–c), e) EOR chronoamperometric stability curves and f ) EOR cycling stability curves of PdCuIn, PdCu, PdIn NPs, and Pd/C catalysts.

(1849 mA mgPd-<sup>1</sup> for Pd/C), and other Pd-based catalysts (see Table S3, Supporting Information). The HAADF–STEM and EDX mappings of PdCuIn NPs after EOR are shown in Figure S4, Supporting Information. It can be seen that PdCuIn NPs are aggregated after the reaction, while the tiny spherical particles are still distinctly visible. The EDS mappings also confirm the composition of Pd, Cu, and In elements. These results reveal that the reaction does not destroy the nanostructure of PdCuIn NPs.

Compared to PdCu NPs and Pd/C, alloying Pd with smaller Cu atoms significantly facilitates the catalytic process owing to the electronic interaction on the surface of nanocatalysts. However, using the same method for introducing In atoms into Pd to form PdIn NPs, we failed to enhance the catalytic activity. According to the XRD results, doping Cu into Pd could boost the downshift of the d-band center of Pd, but not for PdIn NPs, thus resulting in strong adsorption of COads (or Hads) on the surface of PdIn NPs. Therefore, the severe catalyst poisoning causes the poor catalytic activity of PdIn NPs for EOR and FOR. But, encouragingly, doping In atoms into PdCu NPs to form PdCuIn NPs could significantly enhance the catalytic activity for EOR and FOR, due to the improvement of electron transfer between Pd and other atoms, according to the XPS results in Figure 2. Hence, for the construction of Pd-based catalysts, introducing an oxyphilic metal (like Cu) can achieve a suitable d-band center for a good anti-poisoning of COads and Hads. Doping other metals

1.00 Library on International Conditions on Wiley Continues and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/tems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library or rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons Library on the Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons Library on the Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons License (Commons Li

with low electronegativity (like In) can enhance the electron transfer, which is an efficient method to improve the catalytic performance. On the one hand, alloying Pd and Cu together indeed enhances the catalytic activities of both EOR and FOR. On the other hand, although directly doping In into Pd to form PdIn NPs could not enhance the catalytic activities, the In plays a key role in improving the activities (either for EOR or FOR), owing to the stronger electron effects of ternary nanocatalysts (PdCuIn NPs) than those of binary nanocatalsts (PdCu NPs).

The current–time (*i–t*) chronoamperometry measurements at the potential of  $-0.3 \,\mathrm{V}$ , which corresponds to the potential of peak current, were evaluated to compare the electrocatalytic durability of the catalysts. The sharp decline in mass activity during the first 600 s is observed in all catalysts, whether for EOR (see Figure 3e) or FOR (Figure S5, Supporting Information), due to the accumulation of strongly absorbed reactive intermediates on the surface of catalysts.<sup>[18]</sup> The PdCuIn NPs exhibit a mass activity of 220 mA  $mg_{Pd}^{-1}$  after 3600 s, which are almost 14.7, 27.5, and 2.7 times higher than that of PdCu NPs (15 mA mg<sub>Pd</sub><sup>-1</sup>), PdIn NPs (8 mA mg<sub>Pd</sub><sup>-1</sup>), and commercial Pd/C (82 mA mg $^{-1}$ ), respectively, suggesting the PdCuIn NPs has the best electrocatalytic stability compared with other catalysts. In addition, the cycling stabilities of catalysts were also investigated by the long-time CV sweep for 1000 cycles (see Figure S6, Supporting Information), and the current densities of the forwarding peaks from CVs are collected in Figure 3f (for EOR) and Figure S7, Supporting Information, (for FOR). As shown in Figure 3f, the peak current density (mass activity, mA/mg<sub>Pd</sub>) for EOR gradually decreases with the increase of the scan numbers and remained at a value of 5298, 274, 1666, and 25 mA mg<sub>Pd</sub><sup>-1</sup> for PdCuIn NPs, PdCu NPs, PdIn NPs, and Pd/C respectively, after 1000 cycles. Similarly, the cycling stability of Pd-based catalysts for FOR also exhibits the same decay tendency (see Figure S7, Supporting Information). It is worth highlighting that both chronoamperometric stability and cycling stability tests of PdCuIn NPs exhibit strong mass activity at the end. The enhanced stability of PdCuIn NPs is attributable to the trimetallic alloyed structure, in which the oxophilic Cu atoms doping in the Pd downshift the d-band center and weaken the adsorption of toxic intermediates such as CO<sub>ads</sub> and H<sub>ads</sub>.

#### 2.3. Evaluation of Catalysts

The reactant mass-transfer influence in EOR was excluded based on the LSVs, which can be regarded as the quasi-steady-state EOR polarization curve. The onset potential in this study is determined as the potential at the beginning of the current peak. As shown in **Figure 4**a, obviously negative shifts of onset potential from PdCu NPs, PdIn NPs, and Pd/C to PdCuIn NPs are observed, suggesting a lower EOR overpotential for the better catalytic performance of trimetallic NPs, which can be attributed to the increasingly easier hydroxyl formation on the surface of catalysts. [4] The EOR electrocatalytic kinetics were further studied via the Tafel plots (Figure 4b) derived from LSVs. There exists an increasingly lower Tafel slop from PdIn NPs, Pd/C, PdCu NPs, and PdCuIn NPs, confirming an increasingly faster EOR charge-transfer rate and thus an increasingly better EOR electrocatalytic kinetics. The low Tafel slop of PdCuIn NPs is dependent

on the above-proved negative shift in onset potential. According to the Tafel slops equation, the values of Tafel slops are calculated in the lower potential region (-0.75 to -0.45 V), where the adsorption of hydroxyl taken place. This electron effect induced by Cu and In is conducive to generating oxygenated species (such as  $-OH_{ads}$ ) at lower potential, thus favoring the oxidation of intermediates that adsorbed on the Pd-active sites.

Electrochemical impedance spectroscopies (EIS) were performed at  $-0.3 \,\mathrm{V}$  in the frequency range of  $10^5 - 10^{-1} \,\mathrm{Hz}$ to investigate the electro-oxidation reaction kinetics, and the corresponding Nyquist plots are presented in Figure 4c. As observed, all tested electrodes consist of similar semicircles in the high frequency regions, of which a smaller dimeter of the impedance arc (DIA) corresponds to a smaller charge transfer resistance (RCT) for EOR. [9a] The DIA decreases in the order of PdIn NPs > Pd/C > PdCu NPs > PdCuIn NPs. Evidently, the PdCuIn NPs have the smallest DIA among these four catalysts, which further indicates that the electron-transfer kinetics for EOR on PdCuIn NPs are significantly better than others, owing to the enhanced electron effects of PdCuIn NPs from Cu and In. Additionally, the hydroxyl adsorbed on the catalysts surface, especially adsorbed by oxophilic Cu atoms, promotes the oxidation kinetics, thus lowering the charge-transfer resistances. In contrast, although alloying with In could improve the electron transfer on Pd based catalysts, it is very easy to be poisoned by CO<sub>ads</sub> or H<sub>ads</sub>, resulting in a high charge-transfer resistance of PdIn NPs, which is even higher than that of Pd/C.

The Tafel slops and EIS of catalysts towards FOR were also obtained in Figure S8, Supporting Information, to illustrate the enhanced electron effects of PdCuIn NPs. As shown in Figure S8a, Supporting Information, the Tafel slopes for FOR increase in order of PdCuIn NPs > PdCu NPs > Pd/C > PdIn NPs, which is in agreement with that for EOR. Apparently, Tafel slopes diminish significantly in the presence of Cu and In. The low value of Tafel slopes implies that the charge transfer kinetics of OH<sup>-</sup> adsorption on PdCuIn NPs catalysts are the fastest for FOR in the alkaline medium, [8c] thus favoring the catalytic oxidation of intermediate reaction products. Hence, the introduction of Cu and In can also observably accelerate the chargetransfer kinetics for FOR. The EIS for FOR was performed to investigate the electro-oxidation reaction kinetics, and corresponding Nyquist plots are presented in Figure S8b, Supporting Information. Although the arcs of Nyquist plots are located at second quadrant at a potential of -0.3 V, the DIA could still reflect charge-transfer resistance of catalysts (the corresponding equivalent circuit model is shown in inset of Figure S6b, Supporting Information). [19] As with the catalysts for EOR, the values of  $R_{CT}$  of catalysts for FOR decrease in the order of PdIn NPs > Pd/C > PdCu NPs > PdCuIn NPs, which clearly reveals that doping Cu and In atoms into Pd-based NPs would also overcome the charge-transfer resistances, further boosting the FOR.

In the process of ethanol oxidation, the CO generated from the C—C bond breaking on the Pd sites via the C1 pathway will reduce the catalytic activity rapidly. It has been generally accepted that CO can be removed by the combination of  $OH_{ads}$  and  $CO_{ads}$  ( $CO_{ads} + OH_{ads} \rightarrow CO_2 + H_2O$ ). Therefore, the catalysts exhibiting the ability of facile generation of  $OH^-$  anions and excellent CO tolerance will significantly enhance the EOR

21944296, 2024, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ente.202301618 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [08/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms/

-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

www.advancedsciencenews.com

Figure 4. a) LSV curves, b) Tafel plots, and c) Nyquist plots (inset, the equivalent circuit model used to fit the Nyquist plots.) of PdCuIn, PdCu, PdIn NPs, and Pd/C in 1.0 M KOH and 1.0 M ethanol; d) CO stripping voltammograms of PdCuIn, PdCu, PdIn NPs, and Pd/C in 1.0 M KOH; e) the d-band center calculated based on the XPS valence band spectra of PdCuIn, PdCu, PdIn NPs, and Pd/C.

performance and durability. Hence, it was confirmed by imitating CO stripping tests on four catalysts. Figure 4d shows the CV curves between -0.8 and  $0.3\,\text{V}$ . The onset potentials of PdCuIn, PdCu, PdIn NPs, and Pd/C for CO stripping are located at -0.56, -0.45, -0.22, and  $-0.31\,\text{V}$ , respectively. It is clear that alloying In (Cu) into PdCu (In) NPs significantly decreases the onset potential and is even lower than Pd/C, which suggests that CO $_{\rm ads}$  is more easily removed from PdCuIn NPs than other nanocatalysts.  $^{[20]}$  In addition, PdCuIn NPs has the largest active area of CO oxidation/removal peak compared to other nanocatalysts, further confirming an excellent substantial improvement of

PdCuIn NPs in CO tolerance owing to the ternary alloyed structures. [11]

It is well known that the d-band center is a good descriptor to understand and explain catalytic activity from the electronic structure. [21] We thus measured the values of the d-band centers of four catalysts based on the XPS valence band spectra. As shown in Figure 4e, the d-band centers of PdCuIn, PdCu, PdIn NPs, and Pd/C are 2.32, 2.63, 1.98, and 2.18 eV, respectively. Compared to Pd/C, the d-band center upshifts by 0.14 and 0.45 eV for PdCuIn and PdCu NPs, and downshifts by 0.20 eV for PdIn NPs. Generally, when CO adsorbs on metal

www.entechnol.de

21944926, 2024, 6, Dwnloaded from https://onlinelbary.wiley.com/do/10.1002/ente.20231618 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0801/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelbtrary.wiely.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

(Pd) surface, the  $5\sigma$  and  $2\pi^*$  orbitals of CO hybridize with the metal (Pd) d-states.<sup>[22]</sup> As the d-band center shifts away from the Fermi level, the back-donation of electrons from Pd to CO is reduced, thus weakening the interaction between CO and Pd. [23] Therefore, PdIn NPs shows poor catalytic activity both for EOR and FOR due to the strong bonding between COads (or Hads) and Pd, leading to COads (or Hads) poisoning, which is also confirmed by the CO-stripping experiments in Figure 4d. Nevertheless, the d-band center is not the more away from Fermi level, the more catalytic activity of Pd-based catalysts for EOR (or FOR) when using PdCuIn NPs and PdCu NPs as comparison. According to the Sabatier principle, [24] the catalytic activity can achieve its highest level when the bond strength between the key intermediate species and the surface is not too strong or weak. That is, if the bond strength is too strong, the intermediate species (like CO<sub>ads</sub> or H<sub>ads</sub>) can poison the surface by blocking the active sites for additional reactants to react. However, because the bond strength is too weak, the key intermediates will not undergo further reactions. Consequently, after introducing In into PdCu NPs, the d-band center of PdCuIn NPs achieves an appropriate value, resulting in a suitable bond strength between key intermediates and the surface of catalysts. Additionally, the lower electronegativity of In further boosts the charge transfer from other metals to Pd and accelerates the kinetics for EOR or FOR. The synergistic effect between d-band shift and charge transfer of PdCuIn NPs improves the catalytic performance both for EOR and FOR.

#### 3. Conclusion

In this study, facile hydrothermal synthesis produced trimetallic (PdCuIn NPs) and bimetallic (PdCu and PdIn NPs) catalysts, showcasing remarkable performance in both EOR and FOR. PdCuIn NPs exhibit outstanding electrocatalytic performance, with mass activity reaching 16000 mA mg<sub>Pd</sub><sup>-1</sup> for EOR and  $15500 \,\mathrm{mA}\,\mathrm{mg}_{\mathrm{Pd}}^{-1}$  for FOR, respectively. This far surpassed the activity of PdCu NPs, PdIn NPs and commercial Pd/C. The introduction of Cu and In induces favorable electronic structure adjustments in the Pd-based catalyst, leading to a shifted d-band center and accelerated charge transfer. Consequently, PdCuIn NPs demonstrate superior adsorption, reaction, and desorption of intermediates, manifesting exceptional catalytic performance. This investigation presents a viable approach for the rational design of catalysts applicable to both EOR and FOR by integrating oxophilic and low electronegative metals in noble metal alloys.

#### 4. Experimental Section

Materials and Characterization: Palladium (II) chloride (PdCl<sub>2</sub>), potassium formate (HCOOK) were purchased from Energy Chemical. Copper (II) chloride dihydrate (CuCl<sub>2</sub>·2H<sub>2</sub>O) and indium chloride tetrahydrate (InCl<sub>3</sub>·4H<sub>2</sub>O) were obtained from Aladdin. EDTA acid disodium salt dihydrate (EDTA-2Na-2H2O), trisodium citrate dihydrate (Na<sub>3</sub>C<sub>6</sub>H<sub>7</sub>O<sub>5</sub>·2H<sub>2</sub>O), and polyvinyl pyrrolidone (PVP, K30) were supplied by Shanghai Chemical Corp. Ethanol (CH<sub>3</sub>CH<sub>2</sub>OH, 99.7%) and potassium hydroxide (KOH) were provided by Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co. Ltd. (Shanghai). Nafion solution (5 wt% in propanol and water) was purchased from Alfa Aesar. Commercial Pd/C (10 wt%) was obtained from Sigma Aldrich. All the reagents were of analytical grade and were used without further purification. The water ( $H_2O$ , 18  $M\Omega$ ) used in the experiments was ultra-pure water prepared by the ultrapure purification system (HHitech, Eco-S15UE)

The size, morphology, and chemical composition of materials were characterized by transmission electron microscopy (TEM, IEOL 2100F), high-resolution TEM (HRTEM), and EDX (FEI Talos F200X). The crystalline phase and structure of the material were determined by X-ray powder diffraction (XRD,  $\lambda = 1.5406 \,\text{Å}$ ) using an X' Pert PROMPD diffractometer (Panalytical B. V.). X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS, Thermo Fischer) was carried out to explore the surface electron states of materials. The binding energy in the XPS spectra was calibrated by setting the adventitious C1s peak to 274.8 eV. The element contents of different nanocatalysts were estimated using an inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometer (ICP-OES, Thermo Jarrell Ash).

Preparation of Catalysts: In a typical synthesis of PdCuIn NPs, 41.6 mg PdCl<sub>2</sub>, 40.0 mg CuCl<sub>2</sub>·2H<sub>2</sub>O, and 68.8 mg InCl<sub>3</sub>·4H<sub>2</sub>O were respectively added to the same solution containing 93.5 mg EDTA-2Na-2H2O and 15.0 mL H<sub>2</sub>O with stirring at 65 °C. The precursor solution was then prepared by mixing the three solutions together. After the solution containing 90.0 mg PVP, 220.6 mg Na $_3$ C $_6$ H $_5$ O $_7$ ·2H $_2$ O, and 15.0 mL H $_2$ O was dropped into the above precursor solution, the resulting mixture was transferred to an autoclave and heated for 10 h in an oven at 200 °C. Finally, the product was separated by centrifugation and washed with H<sub>2</sub>O and ethanol. Notably, bimetallic PdCu, PdIn, and CuIn NPs were synthesized using the same method, except that InCl<sub>3</sub>·4H<sub>2</sub>O, CuCl<sub>2</sub>·2H<sub>2</sub>O, or PdCl<sub>2</sub> were not added, respectively.

Electrochemical EOR and FOR Measurements: All electrochemical measurements were performed in a three-electrode cell using an AutoLab electrochemical workstation (Metrohm PGSTAT 302N) at room temperature. A glass carbon electrode (GCE, 0.07068 cm<sup>2</sup>) was used as the working electrode. The platinum foil (2 × 2 cm<sup>2</sup>) and Ag/AgCl electrode (Ag/AgCl) were used as counter and reference electrodes, respectively. All potentials were referenced to Ag/AgCl. Before measurements, GCE was continuously polished with 300 and 50 nm Al<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> powder and then washed with H<sub>2</sub>O. The catalyst ink was prepared by mixing 1 mg of catalyst with 20 µL, 5 wt% Nafion solution and 1 mL H<sub>2</sub>O. Then, 5 μL of catalyst ink was dropped on the surface of the GCE and dried in the air. Then CV scans were performed in the range of  $-0.9\text{--}0.5\,\text{V}$  (vs Ag/AgCl) and in a 1.0 M KOH solution to calculate the electrochemically active surface area (ECSA), where ECSA =  $Q_{PdO}/(0.405 \text{ mC cm}^{-2} \times m_{Pd})$ . Where  $Q_{PdO}$  is the charge by integrating the reduction peak area from PdO to Pd, 0.405 mC cm<sup>-2</sup> is the charge required for the reduction of the PdO monolayer, and  $m_{Pd}$  is the mass of Pd (based on ICP-OES analysis) on the working electrode  $^{\left[ 14\right] }$ The mass activities of catalysts were tested using CV scans within -0.9 to  $0.5 \,\mathrm{V}$  at a sweep rate of  $50 \,\mathrm{mV} \,\mathrm{s}^{-1}$  in  $1.0 \,\mathrm{M}$  KOH with  $1.0 \,\mathrm{M}$  ethanol (N2-saturated) for EOR and in 1.0 M KOH with 1.0 M formate (N2-saturated) for FOR, respectively. All electrolytes were purged with high purity nitrogen for 30 min before measurements.

CO stripping experiments were performed in a 1.0 M KOH solution. CO was bubbled into the  $N_2$ -saturated electrolyte at -0.5 V (vs Ag/AgCl) for 20 min before the experiment. Then, high-purity N2 was used to bubble into the CO-saturated electrolyte to remove the dissolved CO from the electrolyte.[13a] The CO stripping curves were recorded with CV between -0.8 and -0.3 V at a scan rate of 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup>.

#### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

L.Q. and Y.T. contributed equally to this work. This work was supported in part by grants from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (grant no. 21871108) and the Program for Innovative Teams of

21944296, 2024, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ente.202301618 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [08/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Outstanding Young and Middle-Aged Researchers in the Higher Education Institutions of Hubei Province (grant no. T201702). The authors also thank Shiyanjia Lab (www. shiyanjia. com) for the support of the XPS and parts of the TEM tests.

## Conflict of Interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# Data Availability Statement

The data that support the findings of this study are available in the supplementary material of this article.

## Keywords

charge transfer, d-band center, ethanol oxidation reaction, formate oxidation reaction, PdCuIn nanoparticles

> Received: December 14, 2023 Revised: January 29, 2024 Published online: March 20, 2024

- [1] a) B. C. Ong, S. K. Kamarudin, S. Basri, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2017, 42, 10142; b) N. Shaari, S. K. Kamarudin, R. Bahru, S. H. Osman, N. A. I. Md Ishak, Int. J. Energy Res. 2021, 45, 6644.
- [2] a) Y. Qiu, J. Zhang, J. Jin, J. Sun, H. Tang, Q. Chen, Z. Zhang, W. Sun, G. Meng, Q. Xu, Y. Zhu, A. Han, L. Gu, D. Wang, Y. Li, Nat. Commun. 2021, 12, 5273; b) L. Guo, T. Jin, Q. Tang, J. Wang, B. Pan, Q. Wang, Z. Li, C. Wang, J. Liu, F. Chen, J. Mater. Chem. A 2022, 10, 13998.
- [3] a) M. Choun, J. Lee, J. Energy Chem. 2016, 25, 683; b) Y. Cui, M. Zhao, Y. Zou, J. Zhang, J. Han, Z. Wang, Q. Jiang, J. Energy Chem. 2022, 68, 556; c) A. Chen, C. Ostrom, Chem. Rev. 2015, 115, 11999.
- [4] L. Luo, C. Fu, F. Yang, X. Li, F. Jiang, Y. Guo, F. Zhu, L. Yang, S. Shen, J. Zhang, ACS Catal. 2020, 10, 1171.
- [5] T. T. Gebremariam, F. Chen, B. Kou, L. Guo, B. Pan, Q. Wang, Z. Li, W. Bian, Electrochim. Acta 2020, 354, 136678.
- [6] a) J. Li, Z. Zhou, H. Xu, C. Wang, S. Hata, Z. Dai, Y. Shiraishi, Y. Du, J. Colloid Interface Sci. 2022, 611, 523; b) J. Li, C. Wang, Y. Zhang, S. Hata, K. Zhang, C. Ye, Y. Shiraishi, Y. Du, J. Energy Chem. 2023, 85, 430; c) J. Li, Y. Xu, C. Wang, Z. Wu, Y. Shiraishi, Y. Du, Surf. Interfaces 2023, 42, 103360.
- [7] a) M. Zhou, C. Li, J. Fang, Chem. Rev. 2020, 121, 736; b) H. L. Liu, F. Nosheen, X. Wang, Chem. Soc. Rev. 2015, 44, 3056.
- [8] a) K. Jiang, P. Wang, S. Guo, X. Zhang, X. Shen, G. Lu, D. Su, X. Huang, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2016, 55, 9030; b) M. S. Ahmed,

- S. Jeon, ACS Catal. 2014, 4, 1830; c) S. R. Chowdhury, T. Maiyalagan, S. K. Bhattachraya, A. Gayen, Electrochim. Acta 2020, 342, 136028.
- [9] a) W. Huang, X. Kang, C. Xu, J. Zhou, J. Deng, Y. Li, S. Cheng, Adv. Mater. 2018, 30, 1706962; b) D. Bin, B. Yang, K. Zhang, C. Wang, J. Wang, J. Zhong, Y. Feng, J. Guo, Y. Du, Chem. Eur. J. 2016, 22, 16642; c) H. You, F. Gao, C. Wang, T. Song, J. Li, X. Wang, Y. Zhang, Y. Du, ChemElectroChem 2021, 8, 3637; d) S. Huang, S. Lu, H. Hu, F. Xu, H. Li, F. Duan, H. Zhu, H. Gu, M. Du, Chem. Eng. J. 2021, 420, 130503.
- [10] a) Y. Jin, F. Chen, L. Guo, J. Wang, B. Kou, T. Jin, H. Liu, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2020, 12, 26694; b) Z. Cao, X. Liu, X. Meng, L. Cai, J. Chen, P. Guo, Colloids Surf., A 2021, 621, 126577; c) L. S. R. Silva, C. V. S. Almeida, C. T. Meneses, E. A. Batista, S. F. Santos, K. I. B. Eguiluz, G. R. Salazar-Banda, Appl. Catal., B 2019, 251, 313; d) K. Wang, F. Wang, Y. Zhao, W. Zhang, J. Energy Chem. 2021, 52, 251.
- [11] C. Shen, H. Chen, M. Qiu, Y. Shi, W. Yan, Q. Jiang, Y. Jiang, Z. Xie, J. Mater. Chem. A 2022, 10, 1735.
- [12] S. Hagos Gebre, M. Getaye Sendeku, J. Energy Chem. 2022, 65, 329.
- [13] a) Y. Liang, T. Ma, Y. Xiong, L. Qiu, H. Yu, F. Liang, Nanoscale 2021, 13, 9960; b) Z. Gong, T. Ma, F. Liang, J. Alloys Compd. 2021, 873, 159802; c) T. Ma, F. Liang, J. Phys. Chem. C 2020, 124, 7812; d) J. You, Y. Zhang, G. Fan, M. Cheng, T. Peng, S. Zhang, T. Ma, F. Liang, Mater. Lett. 2023, 343, 134387; e) T. Ma, L. Qiu, Y. Tao, Y. Cai, F. Liang, J. Alloys Compd. 2024, 979, 173477.
- [14] J. Jeon, K. I. Kon, T. Toyao, K. I. Shimizu, S. Furukawa, Chem. Sci. 2019, 10, 4148.
- [15] a) Y. Zhou, G. Zhang, Q. Ji, W. Zhang, J. Zhang, H. Liu, J. Qu, Environ. Sci. Technol. 2019, 53, 11383; b) M. Zhu, G. Sun, S. Yan, H. Li, Q. Xin, Energy Fuels 2009, 23, 403; c) Z. Wu, E. C. Wegener, H.-T. Tseng, J. R. Gallagher, J. W. Harris, R. E. Diaz, Y. Ren, F. H. Ribeiro, J. T. Miller, Catal. Sci. Technol. 2016, 6, 6965.
- [16] H. Lv, L. Sun, D. Xu, Y. Ma, B. Liu, Appl. Catal., B 2019, 253, 271.
- [17] H. Lv, L. Sun, L. Zou, D. Xu, H. Yao, B. Liu, Chem. Sci. 2019, 10, 1986.
- [18] Z. Chen, Y. Liu, C. Liu, J. Zhang, Y. Chen, W. Hu, Y. Deng, Small 2020, 16, 1904964.
- [19] a) A. Murthy, A. Manthiram, J. Phys. Chem. C 2012, 116, 3827; b) G.-X. Cai, J.-W. Guo, J. Wang, S. Li, J. Power Sources 2015, 276, 279.
- [20] J. J. Feng, S. S. Chen, X. L. Chen, X. F. Zhang, A. J. Wang, J. Colloid. Interface Sci. 2018, 509, 73.
- [21] Z. Zhao, M. M. Flores Espinosa, J. Zhou, W. Xue, X. Duan, J. Miao, Y. Huang, Nano Res. 2019, 12, 1467.
- [22] F. Gao, D. W. Goodman, Chem. Soc. Rev. 2012, 41, 8009.
- [23] S. Hu, F. Che, B. Khorasani, M. Jeon, C. W. Yoon, J.-S. McEwen, L. Scudiero, S. Ha, Appl. Catal., B 2019, 254, 685.
- [24] A. J. Medford, A. Vojvodic, J. S. Hummelshøj, J. Voss, F. Abild-Pedersen, F. Studt, T. Bligaard, A. Nilsson, J. K. Nørskov, J. Catal. 2015, 328, 36.