---
source: Singha 等 - 2024 - D‐Band Engineering in Pd‐Based Nanowire Networks for Further Enhancement in Ethanol Electrooxidation.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 19.044s
generated: 2026-01-09T05:06:23.942180Z
---

**[www.small-methods.com](http://www.small-methods.com)**

# **D-Band Engineering in Pd-Based Nanowire Networks for Further Enhancement in Ethanol Electrooxidation Reaction**

*Tukai Singha, Shalini Tomar, Shuvankar Das, and Biswarup Satpati\**

**The development of highly efficient electrocatalysts for the ethanol oxidation reaction (EOR) is essential for the commercialization of direct ethanol fuel cells, yet challenges remain. In this study, a one-pot solution-phase method to synthesize Pd nanowire networks (NNWs) with very high surface-to-volume ratio having numerous twin and grain boundaries is developed. Using the same method, the Pd lattice is further engineered by introducing Ag and Cu atoms to produce AgPd, and CuPd alloy structure which significantly shifts the Pd d-band center upward and downward, respectively due to strain and ligand effects. Theoretical analysis employing density functional theory (DFT) demonstrates that such modification of the d-band center significantly influences the adsorption energies of reactants on the catalytic surface. Owing to their notably high surface-to-volume ratio and the presence of multiple twin and grain boundaries, Pd NNWs demonstrate significantly enhanced electrocatalytic activity toward EOR, ≈7.2 times greater than that of commercial Pd/C. Remarkably, compared to Pd NNWs, AgPd, and CuPd NNWs display enlarged and reduced electrocatalytic activity toward EOR, respectively. Specifically, Ag4Pd7 NNWs achieve a remarkable mass activity of 9.00 A mgpd<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> for EOR, which is 13.6 times higher than commercial Pd/C.**

**1. Introduction**

Fuel cells, which can efficiently and directly convert chemical energy into electrical energy, are widely regarded as an environmentally sustainable power generation technology. Among various types of fuel cells, direct ethanol fuel cells (DEFCs) have garnered significant interest due to their higher current density, biorenewable nature, nontoxicity, and lower volatility.[\[1–3\]](#page-10-0) Moreover,

T. Singha, S. Das, B. Satpati Surface Physics & Material Science Division Saha Institute of Nuclear Physics A CI of Homi Bhabha National Institute 1/AF Bidhannagar, Kolkata 700064, India E-mail: [biswarup.satpati@saha.ac.in](mailto:biswarup.satpati@saha.ac.in) S. Tomar

Indo-Korea Science and Technology Center (IKST) Bangalore 560065, India

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/smtd.202400368>

© 2024 The Author(s). Small Methods published by Wiley-VCH GmbH. This is an open access article under the terms of the [Creative Commons](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/) [Attribution](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/) License, which permits use, distribution and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited.

**DOI: 10.1002/smtd.202400368**

DEFCs offer greater convenience and security in terms of storage and transportation compared to hydrogen used in proton-exchange membrane fuel cells.[\[3–6\]](#page-10-0) Nonetheless, the sluggish reaction kinetics associated with multielectron transfer during ethanol oxidation reaction pose a barrier to the commercialization of DEFCs. Furthermore, a substantial challenge that persists in the advancement of direct ethanol fuel cells (DEFCs) is the limited durability resulting from the presence of inhibitory CO intermediates and structural changes in catalysts during the catalytic process.[\[7,8\]](#page-11-0) Therefore, the design and preparation of cost-effective, highly efficient, and stable catalysts for the electrocatalytic oxidation of ethanol are highly desirable to enhance the commercial feasibility of DEFCs.

Numerous efforts have been devoted to the design and synthesis of efficient catalysts, both comprised of noble and non-noble metals,

for the electrooxidation of ethanol in alkaline conditions.[\[9–11\]](#page-11-0) The more negative onset potential exhibited by noble metal catalysts such as Pt and Pd, stemming from their distinctive electronic structure, gives them a competitive edge over non-noble metal catalysts like Ni, Mn, Cu, and Co, despite their higher cost and less availability.[\[12–14\]](#page-11-0) Also, rhodium-based nanomaterials have demonstrated exceptional performance as electrocatalysts for ethanol oxidation reactions apart from the Pt and Pd.[\[15–17\]](#page-11-0) To address the limited availability of noble metals, extensive endeavors have been made to elevate their catalytic efficacy. A potent strategy for enhancing catalytic activity involves augmenting the number of active catalytic sites by increasing the surfaceto-volume ratio. This can be achieved by constructing nanostructures such as nanowires, nanopores, nanosheets, and core– shell configurations with thin shells.[\[3,7,18–22\]](#page-10-0) Also, surface defects such as twin boundaries (TBs) or grain boundaries (GBs) can increase the active catalytic sites by exposing more number of metal sites.[\[23,24\]](#page-11-0) An additional approach involves enhancing the intrinsic activity of each of these active catalytic sites through finetuning the electronic structure of noble metal catalysts, which can be done through d-band engineering. In strained catalysts, the lattice parameters deviate from their inherent values, leading to a shift in the d-band center and, consequently, variations in catalytic activity.[\[25\]](#page-11-0) Typically, these strains are introduced through

<span id="page-1-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) Schematic representation of the formation of Pd nanowire networks by polyol synthesis method. b,c) bright-field TEM images of the synthesized Pd NNWs at different magnifications. d) SAED pattern showing different crystallographic planes. e) HRTEM image of the Pd NNW. f,g) Fourier filtered image of the selected area in (e).

the construction of a core–shell configuration, with the extent of strain in the shells varying according to the degree of mismatch between the core and shell lattices.[\[3,18,26–28\]](#page-10-0) Strain can also be introduced by constructing alloy nanoparticles and nanocrystals having surface defects such as grain boundaries and twin boundaries. In alloy nanoparticles, the magnitude of strain present on the nanoparticle surface is contingent on the variance in size between the main atom and the doped atom. In addition to the strain effect, the catalytic characteristics of the alloy are influenced by the ligand effect, where the coordinated atoms at the metal site can intricately adjust the electronic structure and the d-band center of noble metals. Consequently, altering the coordination atoms holds the potential to serve as a viable method for enhancing the adsorption capacity of catalysts toward reaction intermediates.[\[29–32\]](#page-11-0) Surface defects can introduce lattice strain near boundaries. This strain effect can increase the reactivity of nearby active sites. The distortion of the crystal lattice alters the electronic structure of surface atoms, making them more catalytically active. The strained lattice can also affect the adsorption and desorption of reactant and intermediate molecules, thereby influencing the overall catalytic process. Along with this, surface defects themselves can act as catalytic active sites. Due to the unsaturated coordination of the defect sites, they possess high-energy states and enhanced adsorption ability for reactant and intermediate molecules. This increased reactivity at defect sites makes them effective toward ethanol electrooxidation.[\[33–36\]](#page-11-0) Despite extensive attempts to control the shape and strain of noble metal nanoparticles, the challenge of developing catalysts that substantially improve their electrocatalytic activity for ethanol electrooxidation still remains.

In this work, we have produced Pd nanowire networks (NNWs) abundant in twin boundaries (TBs) and grain boundaries (GBs) using a one-pot solution-phase method. This versatile technique also allowed us to synthesize AgPd and CuPd NNWs with various compositions. Notably, our method is reproducible, timeefficient, and environmentally friendly, as it avoids the use of hazardous solvents or chemicals. The nanowires, with their higher surface-to-volume ratio, host numerous catalytic sites. These TBs and GBs significantly enhance Pd's catalytic activity by directly acting as highly reactive catalytic sites and indirectly introducing beneficial strain effects.[\[23,24,35\]](#page-11-0) To explore the impact of strain, we synthesized AgPd and CuPd alloy NNWs with varying compositions. Alloying with Ag and Cu induced expansion and compression of the unit cell relative to pure Pd, resulting in tensile and compressive strains, respectively.[[30,31\]](#page-11-0) We systematically evaluated the catalytic activity for ethanol oxidation

across all catalysts and benchmarked the results against commercial Pd/C. Remarkably, Pd NNWs exhibited a mass activity of 4.738 A mgpd−1, surpassing commercial Pd/C by 7.2 times. Notably, Ag4Pd7 alloy NNWs demonstrated the highest mass activity, reaching 9.00 A mgpd<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> in ethanol oxidation. This performance exceeds that of most reported Pd-based catalysts, showcasing our synthesized materials for promising catalytic applications.[\[37–45\]](#page-11-0)

# **2. Results and Discussion**

### **2.1. Synthesis and Characterization**

A one-pot solution-phase method was employed to synthesize Pd nanowire networks (NNWs), as illustrated in **Figure 1**[a.](#page-1-0) The synthesis process involved the reduction of sodium tetrachloropalladate metal precursor using ethylene glycol in the presence of N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF), and poly(vinyl pyrrolidone) (PVP). The reaction was carried out at a temperature of 200 °C for a duration of 3 h, with citric acid included as an additional component. Figure [1b,c](#page-1-0) exhibit transmission electron microscope (TEM) images of the synthesized Pd NNWs at low and high magnifications, respectively. The images exhibit highly pure nanowire networks, approaching 100% purity, while further examination of TEM images reveals interconnected porous and extended 2D architectures composed of nanowires with an average diameter of 5.63 ± 0.83 nm (Figure S2, Supporting Information). The selected area diffraction (SAED) pattern as shown in Figure [1d](#page-1-0) over an entire nanowire network demonstrates the polycrystalline nature of the sample.

The diffraction spots from individual grain form rings are indexed with (111), (200), (220), and (311) crystal planes of the face-centered cubic (fcc) structure. The high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) analysis provided additional insights into the crystalline structure of the Pd NNWs (Figure [1e\)](#page-1-0). The lattice fringes observed on individual grains exhibited an interplanar spacing of 0.224 and 0.194 nm, corresponding to the (111) and (200) planes of Pd (as depicted in Figure [1f\)](#page-1-0). Notably, the HRTEM images also unveiled the presence of multiple grain boundaries and twin boundaries on the nanowires. A significant number of crystallographic defects are generated around these grain boundaries and twin boundaries, which can act as electrocatalytic active sites (Figure [1g\)](#page-1-0). To comprehend the growth mechanism of Pd nanowires (NNWs), a time-dependent study of the product was conducted employing Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM). As depicted in Figure S3 (Supporting Information), initially, minute Pd nanoparticles were observed. Within the first 10 min, these nanoparticles began to interconnect, giving rise to small nanowires. Subsequently, after 1 h, the nanowires initiated the formation of networks by connecting with each other. By the 3-h mark, all the nanowires seamlessly integrated into these networks.

Remarkably, our synthetic procedure exhibits versatility in producing binary AgPd and CuPd nanowire networks. By simply introducing Ag and Cu precursors into the solution designed for the Pd nanowire network synthesis, we can replicate the process. The resulting TEM images, as depicted in **Figure 2**[a–d,](#page-3-0) showcase the nanowire networks of Ag1Pd7, Ag2.5Pd7, Ag4Pd7, and Ag6Pd7, respectively (Figure S1, Supporting Information). Evidently, the TEM images provide visual confirmation of the successful formation of the network structure, featuring nanowires with an average diameter of 5.74 ± 0.85 nm (Figure [2e;](#page-3-0) Figure S2, Supporting Information). The AgPd nanowires (NNWs) produced in this synthesis are indeed polycrystalline in nature. This is confirmed by the comprehensive SAED pattern (Figure [2f\)](#page-3-0) covering the large area of Ag6Pd7 NNWs, revealing multiple crystal orientations within the structure. Furthermore, Figure [2g](#page-3-0) displays an HRTEM image of the Ag6Pd7 NNWs, distinctly showcasing numerous twin and grain boundaries throughout the nanowires. These characteristics provide clear confirmation of the NNWs' polycrystalline composition, where diverse crystalline domains coexist. The Fourier-filtered image (Figure [2h\)](#page-3-0) obtained from the selected region highlighted in Figure [2g](#page-3-0) reveals significant information about the AgPd NNWs. This analysis indicates that the dominant crystallographic planes within the alloy are the (111) and (200) planes of AgPd. These planes exhibit lattice spacing of 2.34 and 2.02 Å, respectively. It's worth noting that these lattice spacing are notably larger compared to the lattice spacing of pure Pd (d111 = 2.24 Å and d200 = 1.94 Å), which can be attributed to the incorporation of relatively larger Ag atoms into the Pd lattice, resulting in an alloyed structure. The expansion of the Pd lattice introduces tensile strain in the Pd lattice of AgPd NNWs. Moreover, the surface of the NNWs is not smooth, but full atomic steps with high-index facets indexed using the microfacet notation developed by Somorjai et al. as shown in Figure [2i](#page-3-0) with different colors, which may act as highly active electrocatalytic hot spots.[\[46\]](#page-11-0) The uniform distribution of Pd and Ag atoms through the nanowire networks is confirmed in energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX) elemental mapping (Figure [2j\)](#page-3-0).

Simply replacing the Ag(I) precursor with a Cu(II) precursor leads to the fabrication of nanowire networks composed of Pd and Cu atoms. By adjusting the quantity of the added Cu(II) precursor in the solution, CuPd nanowire networks with varying compositions such as Cu2Pd7 and Cu4Pd7 are successfully synthesized. The network morphology is clearly evident in the TEM images depicted in **Figure 3**[a,b.](#page-4-0) The CuPd nanowires within the network structures exhibit an average diameter of 5.97 ± 0.82 nm (Figure [3c;](#page-4-0) Figure S2, Supporting Information). The diffraction pattern observed in the SAED pattern (Figure [3d\)](#page-4-0), characterized by multiple concentric rings with distinct diffraction spots, along with the presence of numerous twin regions and grain boundaries in the HRTEM image (Figure [3e\)](#page-4-0), provides compelling evidence for the polycrystalline nature of the CuPd NNWs. The prevalent crystal facets within these nanowires are predominantly oriented along the (111) and (200) planes, similar to those found in pure Pd and AgPd NNWs. However, these facets exhibit slightly reduced interplanar spacing when compared to pure Pd NNWs. Specifically, the interplanar spacing of the (111) and (200) planes in Cu4Pd7 measures 2.18 and 1.87 Å, respectively, as illustrated in the Fourier-filter image (Figure [3f\)](#page-4-0). This reduction in interplanar spacing can be ascribed to the formation of an alloy with relatively smaller Cu atoms. The inclusion of these smaller Cu atoms generates a compressive strain within the Pd lattice structure. The uniform distribution of Pd and Cu atoms through the nanowire networks is confirmed in energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX) elemental mapping (Figure [3g\)](#page-4-0).

The powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis delves deeply into the crystalline structures of nanowire networks composed of Pd, AgPd, and CuPd alloys. As depicted in **Figure 4**[a,](#page-5-0) all examined

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a–d) Bright-field TEM images of Ag1Pd7, Ag2.5Pd7, Ag4Pd7, and Ag6Pd7 NNWs, respectively. e) TEM image of Ag6Pd7 NNWs at higher magnification. f) SAED pattern acquired on Ag6Pd7 NNWs, with different crystallographic planes. g) HRTEM image of the Ag6Pd7 NNW. h) Fourier filter image of the selected area in the orange box in (g). i) Enlarged image of the selected area in the red box in (g). j) EDX elemental mapping of Ag6Pd7 NNWs.

nanowire networks exhibited distinct diffraction peaks corresponding to the (111), (200), (220), and (311) crystallographic planes of the face-centered cubic (fcc) structure. The diffraction peaks for AgPd nanowire networks display a noticeable shift toward lower 2 values compared to those of Pd nanowire networks. This shift becomes more pronounced with an increasing proportion of Ag atoms within the AgPd nanowires. This negative shift suggests an expansion in the interplanar spacing, attributed to the integration of relatively larger Ag atoms into the Pd crystal lattice. In contrast, an opposite trend is observed in the XRD pattern of CuPd nanowire networks. The diffraction peaks tend to shift toward higher 2 values, indicating a reduction in interplanar spacing. This outcome is associated with the alloying of Pd atoms with comparably smaller Cu atoms. Consequently, the introduction of Ag and Cu atoms leads to an expansion and contraction of the Pd–Pd atomic distances, respectively. This phenomenon gives rise to tensile strain in the Pd lattice when Ag atoms are incorporated and, conversely, generates compressive strain within the Pd lattice upon alloying with smaller Cu atoms.[\[31,47–49\]](#page-11-0) Moving to Figure [4b,](#page-5-0) we quantified the amount of strain generated in the Pd lattice of different AgPd and CuPd nanowire networks. The Ag6Pd7 alloy demonstrates its highest tensile strain at 4.46%, while the Cu4Pd7 alloy showcases its maximum compressive strain at 3.13%. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) spectra were acquired on the Pd, Ag4Pd7, Cu4Pd7 alloy NNWs, and commercial Pd/C to study the effect of strain on their electronic properties (Figure [4c\)](#page-5-0). The binding energy of C 1s, which is 284.6 eV, was used to calibrate all the

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** a,b) bright-field TEM images of Cu2Pd7 and Cu4Pd7 NNWs, respectively. c) TEM image of Cu4Pd7 NNWs at higher magnification. d) SAED pattern acquired on Cu4Pd7 NNWs, with different crystallographic planes. e) HRTEM image of the Cu4Pd7 NNW. f) Fourier filter image of the selected area in the orange box in (e). g) EDX elemental mapping of Cu4Pd7 NNWs.

XPS spectra. The XPS analysis of commercial Pd/C revealed the presence of four distinct peaks at 335.2, 336.86, 340.51, and 342.27 eV. Specifically, the peaks at 335.2 and 340.51 eV corresponded to the Pd° for 3d5/2 and 3d3/2 states, respectively. In contrast, the peaks observed at 336.86 and 342.27 eV were identified as the Pd 3d5/2 and 3d3/2 states of Pd<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>. Similarly, four peaks appear in the XPS spectra of Pd NNWs, situated at 334.84, 335.98, 340.15, and 340.93 eV, respectively, and these binding energies exhibited a negative shift compared to commercial Pd/C.

The presence of multiple twin boundaries and grain boundaries in the Pd NNWs are likely responsible for this negative shift, as lattice distortions near the boundaries introduce lattice strain. Lattice strain induces a notable shift in the core level binding energy due to alterations in the atomic bond distances, as documented in previous studies.[\[3,18,50\]](#page-10-0) XPS spectra for Ag4Pd7 NNWs and Cu4Pd7 NNWs were also obtained to investigate the impact of tensile and compressive strain on binding energies, respectively. The binding energy peaks for the Pd 3d5/2 and 3d3/2 states of both Pd<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> and Pd<sup>0</sup> in the XPS spectra of Ag4Pd7 shifted toward lower binding energy compared to Pd/C and Pd NNWs, indicating an upshift of the d-band center.[\[29,51,52\]](#page-11-0) Conversely, the binding energy peaks for the Pd 3d5/2 and 3d3/2 states of both Pd<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> and Pd<sup>0</sup> in the XPS spectra of Cu4Pd7 shifted toward higher binding energy compared to Pd NNWs, signifying a downshift of the d-band center. Tensile strain expands the lattice parameter, leading to reduced binding energies. In contrast, compressive strain contracts the lattice parameter, causing an increase in binding energy. In AgPd and CuPd alloy nanowires (NNWs), the ligand effect, stemming from changes in the coordination environment of palladium, can significantly contribute to alterations in the d-band center. This phenomenon is one possible reason for the shift in the binding energy of Pd within the alloy. Additionally, charge transfer between Ag, Pd, and Cu plays a crucial role in this shift. With Pd possessing a higher electronegativity (2.2) compared to Ag (1.93) and Cu (1.90), electrons tend to transfer from Ag and Cu to Pd. Consequently, the binding energy of Ag 3d and Cu 2p shifts to higher values with an increasing fraction of Pd in the alloy (Figure S6, Supporting Information). The ligand effect and charge transfer from Ag and Cu to Pd may be another reason for the shift in binding energy. The shift in the d-band center for the Pd sites leads to a change in adsorption energies toward \*OH and ethanol molecules on the nanowire network surface.[\[53\]](#page-11-0)

#### **2.2. Electrochemistry**

Before assessing the performance of the NNWs in alcohol oxidation reactions (AOR), we investigated the impact of strain on

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 4.** a) XRD pattern of Pd, AgPd, and CuPd NNWs. b) Lattice strain generated in the NNWs, calculated from XRD patterns. c) Pd 3d XPS spectra of Pd, AgPd, CuPd NNWs, and commercial Pd/C.

the adsorption energy strength of \*OH on the electrocatalysts' surface, serving as a mimic for assessing the efficiency of the electrocatalysts in activating alcohols. A higher adsorption energy of \*OH on a particular catalyst implies a greater capability to activate ethanol. As illustrated in **Figure 5**[a,b,](#page-6-0) the PdO reduction peak in the backward scan for Pd NNWs shifted ≈22 mV toward the negative side compared to commercial Pd/C, confirming an increase in the binding energy of \*OH. This shift can be attributed to the strain induced by the presence of twin boundaries and grain boundaries on the surface of Pd NNWs. Furthermore, the PdO reduction peak shifted toward the more negative side for AgPd alloy NNWs and this shift increased with a higher percentage of Ag atoms in the AgPd alloy NNWs. This suggests an increase in the adsorption energy of \*OH compared to Pd NNWs, attributed to the tensile strain in the AgPd NNWs resulting from alloy formation with Ag atoms, leading to a higher d-band center. Conversely, the PdO reduction peak shifted toward the positive side for CuPd alloy NNWs compared to Pd NNWs, and this shift increased with a higher percentage of Cu atoms in the CuPd NNWs. This indicates a decrease in the adsorption energy of \*OH compared to Pd NNWs, attributed to the compressive strain in the CuPd NNWs resulting from alloy formation with Cu atoms, causing a downward shift of the d-band center. The change in strain alters the adsorption energy of \*OH, consequently influencing the catalyst's ability to activate ethanol and its intermediates. The electrochemical active surface areas (ECSAs) of Ag6Pd7, Ag4Pd7, Ag2.5Pd7, Ag1Pd7, Pd, Cu2Pd7, Cu4Pd7 NNWs, and commercial Pd/C were determined by calculating the area under the respective PdO reduction peaks, yielding values of 78.03, 74.96, 72.87, 67.85, 61.72, 63.26, 67.86, and 38.24 m2 g<sup>−</sup>1, respectively (Figure S7 and Table S1, Supporting Information). Due to the high surface-to-volume ratio of the NNWs, all Pd-based NNWs exhibited significantly larger ECSAs compared to commercial Pd/C.

Notably, Ag6Pd7 NNWs demonstrated the largest ECSA among all the catalysts, indicating that Ag6Pd7 possesses a higher number of electrocatalytic sites. An additional crucial factor influencing improved electrocatalytic activity is the tolerance against poisonous carbonaceous intermediates, assessed through COstripping experiments in a CO-saturated KOH solution. In the CO-stripping test, the adsorbed \*CO on the catalytic sites is expected to combine with \*OH to form \*COOH, which subsequently decomposes into CO2 and is released from the surface. The enhanced tolerance of Pd NNWs compared to Pd/C is confirmed by the negative shift of the onset potential for the CO oxidation peak (Figure [5c\)](#page-6-0). Alloying with Ag atoms further improves the tolerance of Pd NNWs, with Ag4Pd7 NNWs exhibiting the lowest onset potential for the CO oxidation peak, indicating the highest tolerance against CO poisoning. This heightened tolerance is attributed to tensile strain, which increases the density of \*OH on the catalytic sites. Interestingly, despite possessing higher tensile strain, Ag6Pd7 shows comparable low tolerance compared to Ag4Pd7.

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 5.** a) Cyclic voltammograms of Pd, AgPd, CuPd NNWs, and commercial Pd/C electrocatalysts recorded at room temperature in 1 m KOH electrolyte with a sweep rate of 50 mV s<sup>−</sup>1. b) PdO reduction peaks of all the electrocatalysts in 1 m KOH electrolyte. c) CO-stripping voltammograms of Pd, AgPd, CuPd NNWs, and commercial Pd/C electrocatalysts in 1 m KOH electrolyte with a sweep rate of 50 mV s<sup>−</sup>1, where black solid and red dash lines represent the first and second cycle, respectively. Vertical orange lines represent the onset potentials of respective catalysts for the CO oxidation.

This is because the higher tensile strain in Ag6Pd7 results in higher binding energy, making it challenging to release CO2 from the catalytic surface.

Taking all these factors into consideration, it is expected that Pd-based nanowire networks (NNWs) electrocatalysts will demonstrate outstanding performance in electrocatalytic alcohol oxidation reactions (AORs). To examine their AOR performance, we chose the ethanol oxidation reaction (EOR) as a case study. Cyclic voltammograms (CVs) were recorded in a 1 m ethanol + 1 m KOH solution for all electrocatalysts (**Figure 6**[a\)](#page-7-0), where Each CV exhibits two distinct peaks: the forward scan peak corresponds to ethanol oxidation, while the reverse scan peak is attributed to desorption and oxidation of carbonaceous intermediates. The forward peak current was normalized with mass loading on a glassy carbon electrode and ECSA to calculate mass activity and specific activity, respectively. The calculated mass and specific activities for all electrocatalysts are presented in Figure [6b.](#page-7-0) As observed, Pd NNWs exhibit a remarkable mass activity of 4.74 A mgpd<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and a specific activity of 7.68 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which are ≈7.2 and 4.5 times higher than those of commercial Pd/C, respectively. The elevated surface-to-volume ratio of Pd NNWs provides a greater number of electrocatalytic active sites, and the presence of multiple twin and grain boundaries on the Pd NNWs surface contributes to such heightened electrocatalytic activity. These twin boundaries and grain boundaries directly enhance catalytic activity by serving as highly reactive catalytic sites and indirectly introduce tensile strain, increasing the binding energies of \*OH. Additionally, we conducted electrocatalytic EOR tests on AgPd and CuPd NNWs to investigate the impact of strain induced by lattice mismatch on their catalytic activities. As illustrated in Figure [6b,c,](#page-7-0) the electrocatalytic activities of the AgPd NNWs electrocatalysts show a "volcanic trend," with an initial increase followed by a decrease, as the Ag at% increase (Table S2, Supporting Information). The higher Ag at% led to stronger tensile strains, which in turn increased the \*OH adsorption energy, resulting in stronger binding of ethanol and its intermediates, and an increased density of Pd─OH on the surface. This led to an acceleration of ethanol oxidation kinetics. However, beyond a certain threshold of binding energy, it becomes challenging to remove reaction products and poisonous \*CO from the catalytic sites, leading to a deceleration of the electrocatalytic EOR. Another possible reason for decreasing activities with increasing Ag at% is the lack of required surface Pd ensembles for EORs. Conversely, with an increase in the strength of compressive strain, electrocatalytic activities toward EOR decrease, as compressive strain reduces the binding energy of \*OH, negatively impacting the efficiency of the electrocatalytic process. Therefore, Optimal catalytic performance was achieved with Pd-based nanowire networks (NNWs) featuring a moderate tensile strain, particularly demonstrated by the Ag4Pd7 NNWs. The Ag4Pd7 catalyst exhibited a mass activity of 9.00 A mgpd<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and a specific activity of 12.00 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which are ≈1.9 times and 1.6 times higher, respectively compared

<span id="page-7-0"></span>Figure 6. a) Cyclic voltammograms of the eight Pd-based electrocatalysts recorded at room temperature in an electrolyte containing 1 м ethanol and 1 м KOH with a sweep rate of 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. b) Comparison of mass and specific activities among the eight electrocatalysts, utilized in this work. c) Change in mass activities toward EOR with tensile and compressive strains. d) Comparison of mass activity toward EOR of Ag<sub>4</sub>Pd<sub>7</sub> NNWs with the Pd and Pt-based electrocatalyst values reported in previous studies. [37-42,44] e) i-t curves of the eight Pd-based electrocatalysts recorded in an electrolyte containing 1 M ethanol and 1 m KOH at -0.250 V versus Ag/AgCl at room temperature. f) Comparison of mass activities of eight electrocatalysts after i-t test conducted for 10, 1000, and 6000 s. g) Four i-t curves of the Ag<sub>4</sub>Pd<sub>7</sub> NNWs recorded consecutively.

to Pd NNWs. Impressively the mass activity and specific activity obtained with Ag<sub>4</sub>Pd<sub>7</sub> are ≈13.6 and 7.0 times higher than those with commercial Pd/C. The superior electrocatalytic activities of the Ag<sub>4</sub>Pd<sub>7</sub> NNWs can be attributed to their very high surface-to-volume ratio, the presence of multiple twin and grain boundaries, and a carefully engineered moderate tensile strain. These factors collectively elevate the performance of Ag<sub>4</sub>Pd<sub>7</sub> NNWs, positioning it as a superior electrocatalyst compared to other counterparts. Significantly, the electrocatalytic activities of Ag<sub>4</sub>Pd<sub>7</sub> surpass the benchmarks set by most of the Pd-based electrocatalysts developed so far (Figure 6d; Table S3, Supporting Information).

To evaluate the durability of each electrocatalyst, chronoamperometric (i-t) curves were recorded in 1 м ethanol + 1 м KOH solution for 6000 s (Figure 6e). Notably, the Ag<sub>4</sub>Pd<sub>7</sub> NNWs electrocatalyst exhibited the highest initial and final activity in the durability test, indicating superior electrocatalytic performance in EOR. It is evident from the curves that the current density for all the catalysts sharply falls within the first 10 s, attributed to the formation of PdO. Following a 1000-s chronoamperometric (i-t) test, the Pd/C catalyst retained only 19% of its initial current density, whereas the Ag<sub>4</sub>Pd<sub>7</sub> NNWs catalyst maintained ≈33% of its initial current density. Notably, after an extended i-t test continued for 6000 s, the Pd/C catalyst exhibited no discernible current density (Figure 6f). In contrast, the Ag<sub>4</sub>Pd<sub>7</sub> NNWs catalyst demonstrated a notable mass activity of  $0.71 \,\mathrm{A \, mg_{pd}}^{-1}$ , higher than the performance of the fresh commercial Pd/C catalyst (0.66 A mg<sub>pd</sub><sup>-1</sup>). Furthermore, both the AgPd alloy and Pd NNWs electrocatalysts exhibited improved durability compared to commercial Pd/C. After i-t measurements, the electrocatalysts experience partial deactivation, requiring reactivation for an extended lifetime in real fuel cells. In this study,

the partially deactivated Ag4Pd7 NNWs electrocatalyst can be effectively reactivated by a straightforward auto-cleaning process, involving only three CV cycles in the fresh electrolyte (Figure S8, Supporting Information). Figure [6g](#page-7-0) illustrates the four consecutive i-t measurement curves. After each i-t measurement, the deactivated Ag4Pd7 NNWs catalyst was promptly reactivated by performing just three CV cycles. We have conducted an Accelerated Durability Test (ADT) comparing the performance of commercial Pd/C and Ag4Pd7 NNWs electrocatalysts over 1000 cycles at a sweep rate of 50 mV s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> (Figure S9, Supporting Information). Notably, after 600 cycles, the catalytic activity of commercial Pd/C was completely diminished, while the Ag4Pd7 NNWs electrocatalyst retained ≈60% of its initial mass activity. Impressively, even after 1000 cycles, the Ag4Pd7 NNWs electrocatalyst maintained ≈50% of its initial mass activity. These results underscore the superior durability and stability of the Ag4Pd7 NNWs electrocatalyst compared to commercial Pd/C. The improved durability of the NNWs can be attributed to higher resistance against poisonous carbonyl intermediates and the sustained structural integrity of the NNWs throughout the catalytic process.

#### **2.3. DFT Studies on the Mechanism of EOR**

DFT calculations were conducted to investigate the influence of strain on the catalytic activity during the ethanol oxidation reaction over palladium surfaces. Various surfaces of Pd, AgPd, and CuPd alloys were generated and specifically labeled as pure Pd, Ag4Pd7, Ag6Pd7, and Cu4Pd7. The tensile strain was observed in the Pd and Ag alloys, whereas compressive strain was evident in the Pd and Cu alloys, attributed to disparities in lattice sizes. The respective strains for Ag4Pd7, Ag6Pd7, and Cu4Pd7 were +3.57%, +4.46%, and −3.12%. Ground state stable structures and projected density of states (PDOS) plots of Pd atoms, along with the d-band centers for the pure Pd, Ag4Pd7, Ag6Pd7, and Cu4Pd7 surfaces, are depicted in **Figure 7**[a–h,](#page-9-0) respectively. According to the d-band center theory, the catalytic activity of transition metal surfaces is closely associated with their d-band center, improving as it approaches the Fermi level. Our findings indicated that tensile strain shifts the d-band center closer to the Fermi level, thereby boosting the catalytic activity. Notably, the d-band centers of the Ag4Pd7 and Ag6Pd7 alloys are closer to the Fermi level compared to those of the pure Pd and Cu4Pd7 surfaces, as shown in Figure [7.](#page-9-0) Based on this theory, the Ag4Pd7 and Ag6Pd7 NNWs are expected to demonstrate superior catalytic activity compared to the other catalysts.[\[54\]](#page-11-0)

We also studied the reaction energy profiles during ethanol oxidation in all four cases including pure palladium surface, which are depicted in Figure [7.](#page-9-0) While studying the reaction energy profile for the ethanol oxidation, first we adsorbed the ethanol over the surfaces and calculated the adsorption energy for each case using the formula, Eads = E(surface<sup>+</sup>adsorbates) – E(surface) – E(adsorbates), where, E(surface<sup>+</sup>adsorbates) and E(surface) are the total energy of surface with and without adsorbates and E(adsorbates) is the total energy of isolated adsorbates (Figures S10 and S11, Supporting Information). The adsorption energy of ethanol on a pure palladium surface is −0.55 eV, falling within the range of previously reported values for transition metal surfaces.[\[55,56\]](#page-11-0) In the cases of Ag4Pd7 and Ag6Pd7 alloys, the binding of ethanol from the surface is slightly weaker as compared to pure palladium with the adsorption energy −0.28 and −0.09 eV, respectively. Interestingly, the comparison revealed that tensile strain contributes to weakening the bonding of ethanol from the Ag4Pd7 and Ag6Pd7 alloys, which is a positive indication for further study of ethanol decomposition. Conversely, compressive strain led to the increase of the adsorption energy by 0.08 eV in Cu4Pd7, rendering the strong bonding of ethanol with Cu4Pd7 alloy, which is less favorable as a catalyst.

To select the optimal catalyst for ethanol oxidation, we followed the Sabatier principle, which suggests that the interaction between the catalyst and the reactant should be moderate to exhibit the highest catalytic activity. As a result, the Ag4Pd7 alloy presents itself as a potentially promising catalyst surface for EOR due to its moderate binding strength with ethanol when compared to Ag6Pd7 and Cu4Pd7. However, comparing catalyst surfaces solely based on this parameter is limited. Therefore, we compared the adsorption energy for all possible intermediates involved in EOR and plotted the complete reaction pathway to identify the rate-determining step based on the difference in adsorption energy (Figures S10 and S11, Supporting Information). The reaction energy profiles, for Pure Pd, Ag4Pd7, Ag6Pd7, and Cu4Pd7, are represented in Figure [7i–l,](#page-9-0) respectively.

As, it is well known that EOR follows two distinct pathways, C1 and C2, leading to the production of CO2 and CH3COO, respectively.[\[29\]](#page-11-0) In our investigation, we found that the dehydrogenation of CH3CH2OH shows a continuous downhill trend (energetically favorable) till the formation of CH3CO\* by sequentially removing one hydrogen in each step: CH3CH2OH\* → CH3CHOH\* → CH3COH\* → CH3CO\*. The further dehydrogenation of CH3CO\* to CH2CO\* and the oxidation of CH3CO\* to CH3COOH\* helps to determine the selectivity between the C1 and C2 pathways. Pure palladium and Ag6Pd7 follow the C2 path, as it has less energy barriers 2.2 and 1.7 eV respectively, as compared to further dehydrogenation step, while Ag4Pd7 and Cu4Pd7 favor the C1 path with barrier 1.7 and 1.8 eV. Next, our investigation focuses on identifying the optimal catalyst based on the rate-determining step. It's noted in the literature that the rate-determining step of ethanol oxidation reaction can vary across the different paths, surfaces, and medium and so far, the reported rate-determining step in acidic medium is dissociation of C─C bond and alkaline medium is removal of the adsorbed species.[\[57,58\]](#page-11-0) Since our investigation is in the alkaline medium we identify two distinct elementary reaction steps within C1 pathway: CH3CO\* → CH2CO\* and COOH\* → CO2 step, which are energetically less favorable due to their nonspontaneous nature. Upon comparing the energy difference for these two elementary steps, we observed that the COOH\*→CO2 elementary step consistently shows a higher difference in the adsorption energy for all catalyst surfaces, which can be considered as the rate-determining step within the C1 path. The difference in the adsorption energy of COOH→CO2 as a rate-determining step for pure palladium, Ag4Pd7, Ag6Pd7, and Cu4Pd7 is 2.80, 1.80, 2.07, and 3.06 eV, respectively. Among all catalyst surfaces, Ag4Pd7 exhibited the lowest energy difference, making it a promising candidate for ethanol oxidation reactions, which is also consistent

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**Figure 7.** a–d) Ground state optimized structure of pure Pd, Ag4Pd7, Ag6Pd7, and Cu4Pd7 catalysts surface, respectively. e–h) PDOS plots of Pd atoms, with the respective d-band centers for the pure Pd, Ag4Pd7, Ag6Pd7, and Cu4Pd7 surfaces, respectively. i–l) Reaction energy profile of C1 and C2 path for of pure Pd, Ag4Pd7, Ag6Pd7, and Cu4Pd7 catalysts surface during Ethanol Oxidation Reaction, respectively. Red and blue dashed lines show the C1 and C2 paths, respectively.

with our experimental results. Therefore, moderate adsorption energy for ethanol, the reduced rate-determining step barrier, higher C1 path selectivity, and enhanced anti-poisoning effect justify the superior catalytic activities of Ag4Pd7 NNWs over other electrocatalysts.

# **3. Conclusion**

In summary, we introduced a one-pot solution-phase approach for synthesizing Pd nanowire networks (NNWs), characterized by a high surface-to-volume ratio and abundant twin and grain boundaries. This method was also employed to synthesize AgPd and CuPd NNWs, leveraging lattice mismatches between the constituent atoms to induce strain effects in the nanowires. The integration of Ag and Cu atoms into the Pd lattice imparted tensile and compressive strains in the NNWs, respectively, with strain intensity finely adjusted by varying Ag and Cu atomic percentages. Utilizing density functional theory (DFT), we show that tensile strains upshift the d-band center, while compressive strains downshift it. Furthermore, the DFT analysis revealed that the upshift in the d-band center enhances the adsorption energy of reactant molecules on the catalytic surface, whereas the downshift in the d-band center has the opposite effect. We also evaluated the electrocatalytic performance of these Pd-based NNWs catalysts for the ethanol oxidation reaction and benchmarked them against commercial Pd/C. Pd NNWs exhibited a mass activity roughly 7.2 times greater than commercial Pd/C, validating our rationale for synthesizing these nanowire networks. Intriguingly, AgPd and CuPd NNWs demonstrated enhanced and reduced electrocatalytic activity toward EOR, respectively,

<span id="page-10-0"></span>underscoring the predominant role of d-band center shift in upward direction in enhancing catalytic activity over downward direction. Notably, Ag4Pd7 NNWs recorded an impressive mass activity of 9.00 A mgpd<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> for EOR, surpassing commercial Pd/C by a factor of 13.6. Though more research is needed for the final commercialization of direct ethanol fuel cells, this research paves the way to synthesize Pd-based NNWs and the groundwork for designing nanostructures with enhanced properties.

# **4. Experimental Section**

*Materials*: Sodium tetrachloropalladate(II) (Na2PdCl4, 99%), ethylene glycol (EG), N,N dimethylformamide (DMF), polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP, Mw ≈55000), Pd/C (10 wt.% Pd), silver nitrate (AgNO3, extrapure, 99.5%) were received from Sigma-Aldrich. Ethanol, citric acid, potassium hydroxide (KOH, AR), and Copper chloride dihydrate (CuCl2·2H2O, ≥ 99%) were purchased from Merck. The chemicals and reagents were used as received without undergoing further purification. Deionized water (DI water) with a resistivity of 18.2 MΩ-cm was used in all experiments and synthesis procedures.

*Synthesis of Pd, AgPd, and CuPd NNWs*: In a standard synthesis procedure for AgPd nanowire networks (NNWs), 0.7 mL of Na2PdCl4 (0.01 m in ethylene glycol) and a precisely calculated amount of AgNO3 (0.1 m in ethylene glycol) solutions were introduced into a mixture comprising 4 mL ethylene glycol and 4 mL DMF, along with 100 mg citric acid and 150 mg PVP. The resulting mixture was sonicated for 20 min to obtain a uniform blend. Subsequently, this mixed solution was carefully transferred into a Teflon-lined stainless-steel autoclave and heated at 200 °C for 3 h. The autoclave was then allowed to cool naturally to room temperature. Afterward, the product underwent washing with ethanol and centrifugation at 8000 rpm for 30 min, repeating the process four times. The collected product was redispersed in 2.5 mL of ethanol for further use. The identical synthesis method was employed to produce Pd NNWs, excluding the addition of AgNO3, and CuPd NNWs, with the inclusion of CuCl2 instead of AgNO3.

*Characterizations*: To understand the structural and morphological features of the synthesized Pd-based nanowire networks, transmission electron microscopy (TEM) measurements were performed using an FEI Tecnai G<sup>2</sup> F30, S-T microscope, operating at an accelerating voltage of 300 kV. The microscope was outfitted with several accessories, including an energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX) detector from EDAX Inc., a high-angle annular dark field (HAADF) detector from Fischione Model 3000, and a postcolumn imaging filter for electron energy-loss spectroscopy (EELS) and energy-filtered TEM (EFTEM) measurements, provided by Gatan (Quantum SE, Model 963). Scanning electron microscopy imaging was performed using a ZEISS SUPRA 40 field emission gun (FEG) SEM. X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were acquired using Cu K radiation with a Rigaku TTRAX-III diffractometer. For X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), an Omicron Multiprobe (Omicron NanoTechnology GmbH, U.K.) spectrometer equipped with an EA-125 hemispherical analyzer was utilized, and monochromatic Al K radiation was employed.

*Electrochemical Measurements*: Electrochemical measurements were conducted using a CHI 660C electrochemical workstation through the standard three-electrode technique at ambient temperature (25 °C). The reference electrode employed was an Ag/AgCl electrode. The counter electrode was a Pt-wire, while the working electrode was a glassy carbon electrode (GCE) modified with electrocatalysts. The electrocatalytic ink, comprising Pd, AgPd, and CuPd nanowire networks, respectively, mixed with active carbon at a metal loading of 20%, was prepared in ethanol and water mixture. Subsequently, 10 μL of this ink, containing 0.5 μg of Pd metal, was dropped onto the polished surface of the GCE and allowed to dry under ambient temperature for 2 h. Following a 2-h drying period, 10 μL of a 0.05 wt.% Nafion ethanol solution was dropped onto the dried catalyst ink. Subsequently, the setup underwent an additional 6-h drying process under the same conditions. The study of ethanol oxidation reaction activities was performed utilizing cyclic voltammograms (CVs) measurement technique, spanning from −0.8 to 0.4 V at a scan rate of 50 mV s−<sup>1</sup> in an electrolyte containing 1 m KOH + 1 m ethanol. To conduct CO stripping voltammetry, the working electrode was kept at a potential of −0.8 V for 20 min in a solution comprising 1 m KOH with continuous CO gas purging. This step was crucial to ensure thorough coverage of the Pd sites on the electrode surface with CO. Afterward, cyclic voltammetry (CV) curves were recorded in a fresh 1 m KOH solution over a voltage range of −0.8 to 0.4 V, with a scan rate of 50 mV s<sup>−</sup>1.

*Computational Methods*: In the work, density functional theory (DFT) was applied using the Vienna Ab initio simulation package (VASP). Utilizing the projector-augmented wave (PAW) approach with a generalized gradient approximation, a kinetic energy cut-off was set at 500 eV and achieved convergence accuracy for the energy of 10−<sup>6</sup> to expand electronic wave functions in a plane-wave basis. The structural optimization involved a 4 × 4 × 1 Monkhorst–Pack k-mesh in the Brillouin zone, and to prevent periodic units, a vacuum of 15 Å was introduced in the perpendicular direction of the surface. Additionally, the study accounted for DFT-D3 van der Waals interactions employing the Grimme method in all calculations.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# **Acknowledgements**

The authors thank Mr. Goutam Sarkar for his technical support in the XPS measurements. The authors also thank Mr. Arindam Chakrabarti for his technical support in the XRD measurement. T.S. acknowledges the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR), India for providing a research fellowship. The authors also would like to acknowledge the Param Sanganak, IIT Kanpur supercomputing facility under the National Supercomputing Scheme (CDAC-NSM) for computing time. Financial support from the project "Basic and Applied Research in Biophysics and Material Science" (RSI 4002), DAE, Government of India, is gratefully acknowledged.

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

# **Keywords**

alcohol electro-oxidation, d-band center, electrocatalysts, grain boundaries, nanowire networks, strain effect

> Received: March 14, 2024 Revised: April 19, 2024 Published online: May 15, 2024

<sup>[1]</sup> R. Ganesan, J. S. Lee, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2005**, *44*, 6557.

<sup>[2]</sup> L. Xiao, G. Li, Z. Yang, K. Chen, R. Zhou, H. Liao, Q. Xu, J. Xu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2100982.

<span id="page-11-0"></span>

- [3] T. Singha, S. M. Mishra, T. K. Chini, B. Satpati, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2022**, *604*, 154491.
- [4] C. Bianchini, P. K. Shen, *Chem. Rev.* **2009**, *109*, 4183.
- [5] F. Yang, J. Y. Ye, Q. Yuan, X. Yang, Z. Xie, F. Zhao, Z. Zhou, L. Gu, X. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*, 1908235.
- [6] A. Serov, C. Kwak, *Appl. Catal. B* **2010**, *97*, 1.
- [7] W. Hong, J. Wang, E. K. Wang, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2014**, *6*, 9481.
- [8] J. Lai, F. Lin, Y. Tang, P. Zhou, Y. Chao, Y. Zhang, S. Guo, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2019**, *9*, 1800684.
- [9] L. Xiong, Z. Sun, X. Zhang, L. Zhao, P. Huang, X. Chen, H. Jin, H. Sun, Y. Lian, Z. Deng, M. H. Rümmerli, W. Yin, D. Zhang, S. Wang, Y. Peng, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 3782.
- [10] H. Wang, H. Zheng, L. Ling, Q. Fang, L. Jiao, L. Zheng, Y. Qin, Z. Luo, W. Gu, W. Song, C. Zhu, *ACS Nano* **2022**, *16*, 21266.
- [11] T.-J. Wang, F.-M. Li, H. Huang, S.-W. Yin, P. Chen, P.-J. Jin, Y. Chen, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*, 2000534.
- [12] C. Liu, W. Zhou, J. Zhang, Z. Chen, S. Liu, Y. Zhang, J. Yang, L. Xu, W. Hu, Y. Chen, Y. Deng, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 2001397.
- [13] L. Chen, X. Liang, X. Li, J. Pei, H. Lin, D. Jia, W. Chen, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Nano Energy* **2020**, *73*, 104784.
- [14] X. Wang, S. Xi, W. S. V. Lee, P. Huang, P. Cui, L. Zhao, W. Hao, X. Zhao, Z. Wang, H. Wu, H. Wang, C. Diao, A. Borgna, Y. Du, Z. G. Yu, S. Pennycook, J. Xue, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 4647.
- [15] S.-H. Han, H.-M. Liu, P. Chen, J.-X. Jiang, Y. Chen, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1801326.
- [16] S. Bai, Y. Xu, K. Cao, X. Huang, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2005767.
- [17] J. Zhang, J. Ye, Q. Fan, Y. Jiang, Y. Zhu, H. Li, Z. Cao, Q. Kuang, J. Cheng, J. Zheng, Z. Xie, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 11232.
- [18] S. Zhang, K. Liu, Z. Liu, M. Liu, Z. Zhang, Z. Qiao, L. Ming, C. Gao, *Nano Lett.* **2021**, *21*, 1074.
- [19] W. Wang, X. Zhang, Y. Zhang, X. Chen, J. Ye, J. Chen, Z. Lyu, X. Chen, Q. Kuang, S. Xie, Z. Xie, *Nano Lett.* **2020**, *20*, 5228.
- [20] J. X. Li, H. X. Yin, Q. Geng, D. Du, L. Ma, L. Fan, Q. Hua, C. Li, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2022**, *10*, 6569.
- [21] H. J. Wang, S. Q. Jiao, S. L. Liu, K. Deng, H. J. Yu, X. Wang, Y. Xu, Z. Q. Wang, L. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2022**, *10*, 24051.
- [22] S. Dey, S. M. Mishra, A. Roy, A. Roy, D. Senapati, B. Satpati, *ACS Appl, Nano Mater.* **2023**, *6*, 15606.
- [23] Y. Chen, J. Pei, Z. Chen, A. Li, S. Ji, H. Rong, Q. Xu, T. Wang, A. Zhang, H. Tang, J. Zhu, X. Han, Z. Zhuang, G. Zhou, D. Wang, *Nano Lett.* **2022**, *22*, 7563.
- [24] C. Liu, Y. Shen, J. Zhang, G. Li, X. Zheng, X. Han, L. Xu, S. Zhu, Y. Chen, Y. Deng, W. Hu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2103505.
- [25] M. Mavrikakis, B. Hammer, J. K. Nørskov, *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **1998**, *81*, 2819.
- [26] S. Zhang, X. Zhang, G. Jiang, H. Zhu, S. Guo, D. Su, G. Lu, S. Sun, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2014**, *136*, 7734.
- [27] L. Bu, N. Zhang, S. Guo, X. Zhang, J. Li, J. Yao, T. Wu, G. Lu, J. Y. Ma, D. Su, X. Huang, *Science* **2016**, *354*, 1410.
- [28] Z. Liang, L. Song, S. Deng, Y. Zhu, E. Stavitski, R. R. Adzic, J. Chen, J. X. Wang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 9629.
- [29] M. Liu, M. Xie, Y. Jiang, Z. Liu, Y. Lu, S. Zhang, Z. Zhang, X. Wang, K. Liu, Q. Zhang, T. Cheng, C. Gao, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, 15373.

- [30] Y. Mun, S. Lee, A. Cho, S. Kim, J. W. Han, J. Lee, *Appl. Catal., B* **2019**, *246*, 356.
- [31] B. Luo, F. Zhao, Z. Xie, Q. Yuan, F. Yang, X. Yang, C. Li, Z. Zhou, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2019**, *11*, 32282.
- [32] F. Saleem, Z. Zhang, B. Xu, X. Xu, P. He, X. Wang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 18304.
- [33] H. W. Huang, H. H. Jia, Z. Liu, P. F. Gao, J. T. Zhao, Z. L. Luo, J. L. Yang, J. Zeng, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, 3594.
- [34] X. Wang, M. Vara, M. Luo, H. Huang, A. Ruditskiy, J. Park, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 15036.
- [35] X. Geng, S. Li, J. Heo, Y. Peng, W. Hu, Y. Liu, J. Huang, Y. Ren, D. Li, L. Zhang, L. Luo, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2204169.
- [36] X. Wang, L. Figueroa-Cosme, X. Yang, M. Luo, J. Y. Liu, Z. X. Xie, Y. N. Xia, *Nano Lett.* **2016**, *16*, 1467.
- [37] T. Wu, Y. Ma, Z. B. Qu, J. C. Fan, Q. X. Li, P. H. Shi, Q. J. Xu, Y. L. Min, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2019**, *11*, 5136.
- [38] W. J. Huang, X. L. Kang, C. Xu, J. H. Zhou, J. Deng, Y. G. Li, S. Cheng, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1706962.
- [39] X. Zhao, J. Zhang, L. Wang, Z. Liu, W. Chen, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2014**, *2*, 20933.
- [40] X. Zhao, L. Dai, Q. Qin, F. Pei, C. Hu, N. Zheng, *Small* **2017**, *13*, 1602970.
- [41] M. Wang, R. Ding, Y. Xiao, H. Wang, L. Wang, C.-M. Chen, Y. Mu, G.-P. Wu, B. Lv, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2020**, *12*, 28903.
- [42] A. Dutta, J. Ouyang, *ACS Catal.* **2015**, *5*, 1371.
- [43] R. Sarkar, L. S. Graves, J. R. Taylor, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2023**, *15*, 50981.
- [44] M. Zhou, J. Liu, C. Ling, Y. Ge, B. Chen, C. Tan, Z. Fan, J. Huang, J. Chen, Z. Liu, Z. Huang, J. Ge, H. Cheng, Y. Chen, L. Dai, P. Yin, X. Zhang, Q. Yun, J. Wang, H. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2106115.
- [45] S. Fu, C. Zhu, D. Du, Y. Lin, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2015**, *7*, 13842.
- [46] M. A. Vanhove, G. A. Somorjai, *Surf. Sci.* **1980**, *92*, 489.
- [47] J. A. Zamora Zeledon, M. B. Stevens, G. Gunasooriya, A. Gallo, A. T. Landers, M. E. Kreider, C. Hahn, J. K. Norskov, T. F. Jaramillo, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 620.
- [48] H. Huang, K. Li, Z. Chen, L. Luo, Y. Gu, D. Zhang, C. Ma, R. Si, J. Yang, Z. Peng, J. Zeng, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 8152.
- [49] W. Xiao, M. A. L. Cordeiro, M. Gong, L. Han, J. Wang, C. Bian, J. Zhu, H. L. Xin, D. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, 9867.
- [50] B. Richter, H. Kuhlenbeck, H. J. Freund, P. S. Bagus, *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **2004**, *93*, 026805.
- [51] H. Huang, H. Jia, Z. Liu, P. Gao, J. Zhao, Z. Luo, J. Yang, J. Zeng, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, 3594.
- [52] H. Xie, S. Chen, J. Liang, T. Wang, Z. Hou, H.-L. Wang, G. Chai, Q. Li, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2100883.
- [53] P. Ferrin, M. Mavrikakis, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2009**, *131*, 14381.
- [54] S. Jiao, X. Fu, H. Huang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2107651.
- [55] E. D. Wang, J. B. Xu, T. S. Zhao, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2010**, *114*, 10489.
- [56] J. Zhang, X. M. Cao, P. Hu, Z. Zhong, A. Borgna, P. Wu, *J. Phys. Chem. C.* **2011**, *115*, 22429.
- [57] N. Ye, W. Sheng, R. Zhang, B. Yan, Z. Jiang, T. Fang, *Small* **2023**, *20*, 2304990.
- [58] M. Tang, M. Sun, W. Chen, Y. Ding, X. Fan, X. Wu, X.-Z. Fu, B. Huang, S. Luo, J.-L. Luo, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, 2311731. [https://doi.org/10.1002/](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202311731) [adma.202311731](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202311731)