---
source: Tan 等 - 2025 - One‐dimensional Branched PdAg Nanoalloy Rich in Defects for Boosting Glycerol and Ethanol Oxidation.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 8.093s
generated: 2026-01-09T05:07:58.644431Z
---

*Hot Paper*

www.chemeurj.org

# **One-dimensional Branched PdAg Nanoalloy Rich in Defects for Boosting Glycerol and Ethanol Oxidation**

[De-Xin](http://orcid.org/0000-0003-2855-186X) Tan,\*[a] Yan-li Wang,\*[a] Xiao-Mei Ning,[a] Xiao-Li Luo,[a] Chun-Ru Chen,[a] Qiao Xiao,[a] and Jian-Hong Chen[a]

The development of Pd-based bimetallic nanoalloys (NAs) with abundant active sites for achieving highly efficient electrocatalysis in alcohol oxidation deserves continuous attention. Herein, we utilized a facile visible-light-assisted liquid-phase method involving adjusting reaction time to generate active sites, successfully synthesizing one-dimensional (1D) PdAg NAs rich in defects. The optimized 1D PdAg NA exhibits remarkable electrochemical activity, stability, and antipoisonous properties in glycerol oxidation reaction (GOR) and ethanol oxidation reaction (EOR), far exceeding pure Pd and commercial Pd/C catalysts. Notably, compared to glycerol oxidation (1496 mAmg <sup>1</sup> Pd and 4.13 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ), the optimized PdAg NA demonstrated higher mass activity (2990 mAmg <sup>1</sup> Pd) and specific activity (7.86 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ) in ethanol oxidation. In summary, this work may provide a strategy for designing low-cost electrocatalysts enriched with defects, thereby promoting the development of high-performance alcohol oxidation reactions.

# **Introduction**

The growing global production of glycerin derived from biodiesel manufacture and ethanol derived from biomass has sparked renewed interest in developing direct alcohol fuel cells (DAFCs) powered by these alcohols.[1,2] Compared to hydrogenpowered devices, DAFCs have some undeniable advantages as a promising portable power source. Alcohols, such as ethanol, methanol, glycerol, and ethylene glycol, possess higher energy density and are more convenient to store and transport than hydrogen.[3,4] Therefore, improving the catalytic performance of anode catalysts and exploring the use of platinum (Pt)-free electrocatalysts to promote DAFCs as a low-cost alternative energy source to batteries is necessary.[1] Several strategies have been employed to enhance the commercialization and catalytic performance of anode catalysts, including designing particles (control of morphology and structure), using non-Pt metals, introducing a second metal, and developing various catalyst supports. Furthermore, previous studies have demonstrated that non-Pt nanoalloys (NAs) can enhance both the catalytic activity and long-term stability during the oxidation of ethanol and glycerol in alkaline electrolytes.[1,5,6] Palladium (Pd)-based bimetallic catalysts have attracted widespread attention due to their exceptional durability and high effectiveness in the electrooxidation of liquid fuels, particularly alcohols and formate.[7–9] For example, Cao and coworkers prepared intermetallic Pd Pb nanocubes with specific exposed facets using the wet-chemical method. The Pd Pb catalyst exhibited a significantly high mass activity of 4.01 Amg <sup>1</sup> Pd towards ethanol oxidation reaction (EOR), far exceeding that of commercial Pd/C catalysts.[5] Sun and coworkers adopted a two-step spontaneous reduction process to prepare PdM/RGN (M=Co, Cu) composites. The optimized Pd M (Pd: M=6:1) composites exhibited enhanced catalytic properties and stability toward methanol oxidation reaction (MOR)/EOR in alkaline solutions.[10] Although Pd-based bimetallic catalysts are known for their high efficiency in alcohol oxidation, relatively little research has been conducted on the electrocatalytic oxidation of glycerol using Pdbased catalysts, compared to other alcohols such as methanol or ethanol.[6] Recently, Rodrigo Esparza and coworkers fabricated alloyed AgPd nanoparticles through a chemical reduction method, involving the manipulation of the Ag:Pd ratio. Notably, AgPd (1 :1)/C showed good activity and high tolerance towards glycerol oxidation reaction (GOR), suggesting that an optimal composition enhances its electrocatalytic properties.[4] Additionally, it is worth noting that one-dimensional (1D) nanostructures (nanowires, nanorods, nanoribbons, nanobelts, or nanotubes) have been proposed as suitable catalyst architectures for the electrooxidation of the different alcohols due to advantageous features, such as efficient electronic transfer and high structural stability.[11–13] Furthermore, their unique 1D structures make them particularly suitable for use as supportless electrocatalysts, addressing the problems of corrosion and dissolution of carbon supports in traditional catalysts.[11,14] In particular, the branched 1D nanostructures have attracted considerable attention because they can provide an alternative method for enhancing structural complexity and functionality.[15,16] More recently, Yuan and coworkers fabricated PdBiAu branched 1D alloyed nano-chains composed of sub 6.5 nm particles through a one-step liquid phase approach. The peak power density of these PdBiAu nano-chains was 140.1 mW· cm <sup>2</sup> , which was 2.02 times that of commercial Pt/C (69.4 mW· cm <sup>2</sup> ).[17] Since electrochemical reactions predominantly occur on the surface of catalysts, the design and structure of these surfaces are crucial for developing highefficiency electrocatalysts. Numerous studies have shown that

*E-mail: ylwang1998@163.com tdxin@163.com*

<sup>[</sup>a] *D.-X. Tan, Y.-l. Wang, X.-M. Ning, X.-L. Luo, C.-R. Chen, Q. Xiao, J.-H. Chen School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Lingnan Normal University, 524048, Zhanjiang (China)*

defects on the surface of electrocatalysts may induce beneficial effects on electrochemical reactions.[18–20] Furthermore, defects that can adjust nanomaterials' electronic and surface properties are widespread in nanomaterials. Previous studies have indicated that defective catalyst surfaces can serve as active sites and exhibit greater activity than non-defective ones.[18,21–23] Thus, the defect effects related to electrocatalytic performance should be paid continuing attention.

Herein, we report on the synthesis of PdAg NAs via a visible-light-assisted liquid-phase method, which is facile, mild, and requires no special equipment. By regulating the reaction time to create more defects, 1D branched PdAg NA rich in defects is obtained at a specific optical power density of up to 5 mWcm <sup>2</sup> . The optimized PdAg NA exhibited exceptional GOR mass activity (1496 mAmg <sup>1</sup> Pd) and specific activity (4.13 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ) in alkaline media, far exceeding pure Pd and commercial Pd/C catalysts. Furthermore, this catalyst demonstrated high mass activity (2990 mAmg <sup>1</sup> Pd) and specific activity (7.86 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ) for EOR. These superior performances can be attributed to its alloying effect and rich-defect 1D structure, as evidenced by the analysis of surface morphology, microstructure, metal oxidation state, surface composition, and electrochemical performances. Additionally, this work presents the controllable strategies for generating defects in catalysts and further elucidates the relationship between defect structure and catalytic efficiency.

# **Experimental Section**

#### **Materials and Reagents**

Analytical grade Pd(NO3)2 ·2H2O (Sigma), AgNO3 (Sigma), sodium citrate (Aladdin), poly (vinyl pyrrolidone) (Aladdin), ethanol (Aladdin), glycerol (Aladdin), commercial Pd/C (30%, Aladdin), and nafion solution (Aladdin) were used without further purification. Highly purified water (18.25 MΏ· cm) was prepared via an ultrapure water (UPW) production system.

### **Synthesis of PdAg Electrocatalysts**

In this work, the PdAg-III NA sample is discussed in detail. To obtain this sample, sodium citrate (4×10 <sup>3</sup> g), PVP (0.95 g), and a mixture of Pd (NO3)2 ·2H2O (8×10 <sup>3</sup> g) and AgNO3 (2.2×10 <sup>3</sup> g) were dissolved in 25 mL ethanol-water (5:1, v/v) mixed solvent. Then, the mixture was irradiated with the 200-watt incandescent lamp at a distance of 5 cm (5 mWcm <sup>2</sup> put on the reacting solution) in the dark box followed by continuous stirring for 45 min. The product was washed two times by centrifugation, first with ultrapure water and then ethanol, and subsequently dried at 40°C for 24 h. Similarly, PdAg bimetallic nanoparticles under different optical power densities (0, 0.5, and 2 mWcm <sup>2</sup> ) were obtained using the same method by avoiding light or changing the position of the incandescent lamp in the dark box. PdAg NAs with different reaction times (15, 30, and 45 min) were also synthesized using the same method by extending the reaction time. The products with different reaction times (15, 30, and 45 min) were dispersed in ethanol and denoted as PdAg-I, PdAg-II, and PdAg-III. For comparison, a pure Pd electrocatalyst was prepared using the same method under the optical power density of 5 mWcm <sup>2</sup> with a reaction time of 45 min.

### **Characterization**

The morphologies and selected area electron diffraction (SAED) patterns were characterized using a transmission electron microscope (TEM, JEOL-2100f). The element analysis mapping was taken on the high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM, jed2300). The crystallites were determined by Powder X-ray diffraction (XRD, XD-3). X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS, Thermo Fisher Nexsa) analyzed the samples' composition and valence state. The luminescence spectrum of a commercially available incandescent lamp was obtained by a spectral illuminometer (OHSP-350FA). The optical power density was detected by an FZ400 light power meter. Pd loading of the electrode surface was measured by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES, Agilent 730).

#### **Electrochemical Measurements**

Electrochemical properties of as-prepared samples were performed with an electrochemical workstation (CHI 760E, Chenhua Co., Shanghai, China) at room temperature. A conventional threeelectrodes system was used with the saturated calomel electrode (SCE) as the reference electrode, Pt wire as the counter electrode, and the glassy carbon electrode (GCE) modified with the asprepared electrocatalyst ink as the working electrode. The catalyst ink was prepared as follows: 3 μL homogenous monometallic Pd, Pd/C, or bimetallic PdAg NAs (1 gL <sup>1</sup> ) was dropped onto the clean surface of GCE and dried at room temperature. Then, catalystmodified GCE was covered with 3μL of Nafion (0.1 wt%). The real Pd content of 3 μL suspension determined by ICP-OES was 47.79, 50.53, 53.78, and 72.06 wt% corresponding to the PdAg-I, PdAg-II, PdAg-III, and pure Pd, respectively.

# **Results and Discussion**

#### **Characteristics of the Electrocatalysts**

We emphasize that visible light plays an important role in controlling resultant nanostructures. The luminescence spectrum of a common incandescent lamp is shown in Figure 1a. It was clear that the light wavelength of the incandescent lamp was in the visible light region (380–780 nm). In this work, we adopted a facile visible-light-assisted liquid-phase route (the experimental setup is shown in Figure 1b) for the controlled synthesis of PdAg nanomaterials with various morphologies. To investigate the role of light, we conducted four control experiments where we modulated the optical power density by adjusting the illumination distance or placing the solution inside a dark box while keeping all the other experimental conditions constant. Figure 1c presents the color change of the reaction solution. Compared with the unreacted original solution (Figure 1b **inset**), the color of the reaction solution under different light powers (0, 0.5, 2, and 5 mWcm <sup>2</sup> ) became different degrees of darkness after 45 min of reaction (Figure 1c), indicating that reduction reaction took place in the solutions using Pd (NO3)2 and AgNO3 as the metal coprecursors, PVP as a stabilizer and guiding agent, and sodium citrate tribasic dehydrate and ethanol as the co-reducing agent. It is worth mentioning that the color of the reaction mixture became darker even under light-shielded conditions, indicating that metal co-precursors can also be reduced by the action of reducing

**Figure 1.** (a) Luminescence spectrum and an optical image (inset) of an incandescent lamp. (b) Optical image of the experimental setup, with the color of the unreacted original solution (inset). (c) Color changes in the reaction solution after 45 min under different optical power densities: 0, 0.5, 2, and 5 mWcm <sup>2</sup> (d) TEM image of a sample obtained under light-shielded conditions, with the corresponding SAED pattern (inset). (e–g) TEM images, corresponding SAED patterns (insets), and size distribution histograms (insets) of samples obtained under optical power densities of (e) 0.5, (f) 2, and (g) 5 mWcm <sup>2</sup>

agents and protective agents. However, as shown in Figure 1d, the obtained sample contained different morphologies such as spherical, elliptical, nanorods, nanowires, irregular nanoparticles and aggregates, and so on, and its size was not uniform. The corresponding SAED pattern showed the presence of a single Pd and Ag phase (**inset of** Figure 1d). When visible light was introduced into the reaction system, nanoparticles exhibited the normalized morphology, as revealed in Figure 1e**-g**. When the reaction mixture was subjected to the power density at 0.5 mWcm <sup>2</sup> for 45 min, ultra-small nanoparticles with a uniform size (~2.21 nm) were observed, accompanied by aggregation. When the optical power density was increased to 2 mWcm <sup>2</sup> , the nanoparticles became larger with an average particle diameter of ~5.06 nm. The morphology of most nanoparticles was regular, and the aggregation was also improved. The optical power density was further increased to 5 mWcm <sup>2</sup> , and the sample exhibited a 1D branched nanostructure resembling pictographic symbols from the high magnification of TEM (Figure 1g) or larger field of view (1.03 μm×1.18 μm) at low magnification (Figure 2a). If those 1D nanostructures were viewed as the connection of rod-like nanoparticles, they had a statistical length of ~81.14 nm and a statistical diameter of ~4.58 nm. These 1D structures, possessing high aspect ratios (L/D=17.72), exhibited microscale lengths with curved branching structural features rather than straight nanostructures with parallel directions (Figure 2b). Their junction diameters had almost the same dimension as the diameter of the trunk of the 1D structures. The SAED patterns (**insets in** Figure 1e**-g**) indicated that the PdAg bimetallic nanoparticles had a face-centered cubic crystal structure, and the scattering points were attributed to (111), (200), (220), (311), and (222) reflections. The bimetallic nanoparticles obtained under a high optical power density of 5 mWcm <sup>2</sup> exhibited special concentric light dots and rings, indicating a higher crystallinity than the other three samples.

The homogeneous alloy structure of these PdAg bimetallic nanoparticles was confirmed by XRD measurements (Figure 2c). A broad peak at 2θ ranges from 15–30° was attributed to the amorphous PVP.[24] The peak at 39.82° corresponded to positions within the standard diffraction patterns of both Pd (JCPDS: 89–4897) and Ag (JCPDS: 89–3722), and was indexed to the (111) plane of the bimetallic PdAg nanomaterials. It was obvious that the Ag addition caused the shift of the Pd (111) peak towards the Ag peaks. In addition, the other four peaks that were observed at 45.74°, 67.70°, 81.59°, and 85.10° can be assigned to the (200), (220), (311), and(222)planes of the facecentered cubic structure, and they were also located between the positions of the pure Pd and Ag peaks in the standard diffraction patterns. Lin's group[25] also discussed similar results and indicated the alloying of Pd and Ag. Furthermore, no single component peaks of Pd or Ag nanocrystals were detected, suggesting the existence of a single-phase alloy. The formation

**Figure 2.** TEM images and XRD pattern of the as-prepared PdAg NA under an optical power density of 5 mWcm <sup>2</sup> and a reaction time of 45 min. (a) Lowmagnification TEM image. (b) High-magnification TEM image. (c) XRD pattern.

**Figure 3.** HADDF-STEM image (a), and Mapping of elements (b–c) of PdAg NA.

of the PdAg NA was further confirmed by the HAADF-STEM images (Figure 3). The Ag (red) and Pd (green) elements were observed to be homogeneously distributed throughout the PdAg NA, indicating homogeneous alloying.

The metal oxidation state and surface composition of the obtained PdAg NA were detected using the XPS technique, as shown in Figure 4. The adventitious carbon C1s peak (284.8 eV) was used to calibrate the binding energies of samples. The five peaks appeared at about 284.78, 399.82, 531.18, 367.62, and 335.35 eV, which can be attributed to the C 1s, N 1s, O 1s, Ag 3d, and Pd 3d, respectively, as shown in Figure 4a. It indicated that the PVP served as a protective agent and selectively adsorbed on the surface of the PdAg NA. The characteristic peaks of Pd (3d5/2 and 3d3/2) of PdAg NA are shown in Figure 4b. Two peaks at 340.28 eV (Pd 3d3/2) and 335.18 eV (Pd 3d5/2) were assigned to the Pd0 , and the peaks at 342.78 eV (Pd 3d3/2) and 337.38 eV (Pd 3d5/2) were assigned to the oxidized Pd<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>. The peak of Pd 3d5/2 is approximately 335.35ev, corresponding to pure Pd. The Pd<sup>0</sup> peaks of PdAg NA shifted negatively relative to those of pure Pd owing to the Ag alloying with Pd (Figure 4c). For Ag 3d, two peaks of PdAg NA at 367.53 (Ag 3d5/ 2) and 373.53 eV (Ag 3d3/2) were presented in Figure 4d. It was noteworthy that compared with the standard Ag 3d binding

**Figure 4.** XPS spectra of PdAg NA and pure Pd. (a) XPS survey. (b) Pd. (c) 3d levels of pure Pd and PdAg NA. (d) Ag.

energies (3d5/2=368.3 eV, 3d3/2=374.3 eV), as mentioned in the literature,[26] the negative shift of Ag peaks was found to be ~0.77 eV for both 3d5/2 and 3d3/2, respectively. The d-band center positions of Pd and Ag of PdAg NA both shifted to lower values, which was also similar to the previous studies,[27,28] indicating that the Pd atom in PdAg NA was electronically promoted by adjacent Ag species via electronic effect at the atomic level and improved the catalytic performance for alcohol.[28–31] However, partial Pd<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> appeared on the surface of PdAg NA due to the electron transfer from Ag to Pd, improving the reductive ability of Pd. The Pd<sup>0</sup> /Pd<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> atomic ratio calculated by a high-resolution Pd 3d spectrum was 2.77 (Figure 4c), indicating that Pd0 was in a dominant chemical state in the PdAg NA, which is similar to Zhang's result.[32]

Based on the success of obtaining the 1D branched PdAg NA, we observed the growing process and defect evolution of the PdAg NAs within 15–45 min. As shown in the inset of Figure 5a–c, the solution changed from pale brown to black within 45 min. The early-stage sample collected at 15 min was mainly composed of individual particles with a narrow size distribution and had an average diameter of 1.72 nm (Figure 5a). High-resolution TEM and the corresponding fast Fourier transform (FFT) images (Figure 5d) revealed well-defined lattice fringes, indicating that the as-prepared PdAg- INA possesses a monocrystalline nature. The individual nanoparticles in the yellow dashed box in Figure 5d**1**-d2 showed the lattice fringes with d-spacings of 2.28 and 1.98 Å, corresponding to the lattice of (111) and (200) crystal planes of face-centered cubic (fcc) Pd (JCPDS: 89–4897), respectively. It is worth noting that introducing Ag atoms into the Pd lattice can lead to a slight expansion of lattice spacing (2.24 and 1.94 Å).[9,33] However, these nanoparticles still maintained almost perfect crystals. The morphology of PdAg NA began to change after 30 min of reaction time. Some 2.05 nm-sized nanoparticles contacted each other and formed joint structures (Figure 5b). The fringes became curvy and loose, and defects (such as lattice distortion and dislocation) were created during the reaction process (Figure 5e). The (111) and (200) spacing of the PdAg-IINA were 2.40 and 2.08 Å, respectively, which slightly expanded from 2.28 and 1.98 Å (15 min). When it was extended to 45 min, the branching feature started appearing, and the joint nanoparticles grew longer to form 1D branched structures (Figure 5c). Notably, the two adjacent particles could merge at the boundary without any visible gaps, indicating that they were strongly interconnected with each other, ensuring good electrical and mechan-

**Figure 5.** Characterization of PdAg NAs prepared at an optical power density of 5 mWcm <sup>2</sup> with different reaction times (15, 30, 45 min). (a–c) TEM images, size distribution histograms (insets in (a) and (b)), and the color of solution (insets in (a–c)) collected at 15 min (a), 30 min (b), and 45 min (c), respectively. (d– f) Corresponding HRTEM images (d, e, f) and FFTs from the yellow dashed boxes in d1-d2, e1-e2, and f1-f4.

**Figure 6.** Schematic of the defect evolution of PdAg NAs during different reaction times.

ical contact, and resulting in efficient and stable electrocatalysis.[34] As evidenced by the HRTEM image (Figure 5d,e,f), defects were created during the reaction process. Repeated analysis of several samples consistently revealed that PdAg-IIINA exhibited a significantly higher concentration of various defects, including planar extended defects, line dislocation, stepped surface, twin boundaries, lattice distortion, etc. For example, a typical planar bulk defect (twin boundary) was observed in Figure 5f, and its existence can be confirmed by the corresponding FFT diffraction pattern shown in Figure 5f1-f4 (the extra diffraction spots). Compared with the above (111) and (200) crystal planes (2.28 and 1.98 Å), the spacing of the four crystal planes (2.00, 2.06, 2.33, and 2.37 Å) was somewhat expanded. The defect evolution during the growth of 1D branched PdAg-III NA is illustrated in Figure 6.

### **Electrochemical Performance**

To investigate the effect of defect structure and alloy strategy on electrochemical performance, GOR and EOR tests were performed using PdAg NAs, pure Pd, and commercial Pd/C catalysts. Figure 7a displays cyclic voltammetry (CV) curves of PdAg NAs, pure Pd, and commercial Pd/C catalysts in N2 saturated 1.0 M KOH solution at a voltage range of 1.0–0.3 V and a scan rate of 50 mVs 1 . In general, multiple oxidation and reduction peaks occur in the alkaline medium due to the formation of metal hydroxide layers caused by contact between the electrocatalyst and the hydroxyl species.[35] The five well-

**Figure 7.** (a) CVs of the PdAg-I, PdAg-II, PdAg-III, pure Pd, and commercial Pd/C catalysts in 1 M KOH at a scan rate of 50 mVs 1 . (b) CV curve of pure Pd catalyst in alkaline electrolytes.

defined peak areas were observed in the CV plot of the pure Pd catalyst (Figure 7b). Peak I, which emerged above 0.96 V in the forward scan, was assigned to the oxidation of the absorbed and adsorbed hydrogen.[36] Peak II, located in the range of 0.81 to 0.53 V, was associated with the adsorption of OH and partially overlaps the hydrogen desorption peak.[37,38] Peak III, which emerged above 0.45 V, was caused by the formation of Pd OHad and PdO on the surface.[39] The backward scan peak (IV), found in the range of 0.21 to 0.60 V, corresponds to the reduction of PdO, which is crucial for calculating the electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) of catalysts.[40] Peak (V) at 0.90 V was attributed to hydrogen absorption and adsorption.[41] The ECSA of different samples was calculated from the ECSA=Q/(0.424×WPd) equation, where Q (mC) represents the surface charge obtained by the area integrating of PdO reduction peak, 0.424 is the charge required to reduce PdO monolayer, and WPd (mg) is the amount of Pd on the GCE.[42] The ECSAs of PdAg-I, PdAg-II, PdAg-III, pure Pd, and commercial Pd/C electrocatalysts were calculated to be 42.77, 48.23, 55.86, 29.02, 28.72 m2g <sup>1</sup> Pd, respectively. With the extension of reaction time, more active areas of PdAg NAs were exposed. Besides, the PdO reduction peak was negatively shifted in the backward scan in the following trend:

PdAg-III*>*PdAg-II*>*PdAg-I*>*pure Pd*>*commercial Pd/C (Figure 7a), which indicated that the PdO reduction was more difficult owing to the alloying of Pd with Ag.[39]

To investigate the electrocatalytic activity of the above five samples for the GOR, CVs were conducted in a solution containing 1.0 M KOH+1.0 M glycerol (Figure 8). Two welldefined peaks were observed during the forward and backward scan. The forward scan peak (if ) at around 0.19 V was related to the direct oxidation of glycerol. The peak oxidation currents, which were normalized by the metal mass and ECSA, were about 1195/4.13, 707/2.72, 382/1.47, 261/1.23, and 143 mAmg <sup>1</sup> metal/0.78 mAcm <sup>2</sup> for the PdAg-III, PdAg-II, PdAg-I, pure Pd, and commercial Pd/C catalysts (Figure 8a and 8b). According to the ICP-OES results, the corresponding values of Pd mass-normalized oxidation currents were about 1496, 806, 523, 261, and 143 mAmg <sup>1</sup> Pd for the PdAg-III, PdAg-II, PdAg-I, pure Pd, and commercial Pd/C catalysts, respectively (Figure 8c).

**Figure 8.** (a–c) Metal-mass, ECSA, and Pd-mass normalized CVs of the PdAg-I, PdAg-II, PdAg-III, pure Pd, and Commercial Pd/C catalysts in 1 M KOH+1 M glycerol at a scan rate of 50 mVs 1 . (d) Corresponding mass activities and specific activities of catalysts. (e) The magnified CVs from (c).

Despite having a similar composition to PdAg-IIand PdAg-I, the mass activity of PdAg-III NA is significantly enhanced, being 1.86 times and 2.86 times that of PdAg-II and PdAg-I, respectively, which is attributed to its defective 1D branched structures. As shown in Figure 5, PdAg NA gradually changed from single-crystalline to 1D interconnected grains under visible light irradiation, which is useful for maintaining satisfactory mechanical and electrical contacts. Furthermore, this process creates more active sites to expose, which is an ideal highperformance GOR structure.[18,34,43] The variation trend of specific activity was similar to that of mass activity (Figure 8d). The monometallic Pd catalysts exhibited low electrocatalytic activities toward the GOR.

The backward scan peak (ib) at about 0.42 V was related to the oxidation of intermediate species, such as CO-poisoning species. The if /ib ratio is an indicator used to measure a catalyst's surface cleanliness or poisoning tolerance.[39] The PdAg-III NA exhibited the highest if /ib value of 4.06, compared to PdAg-II (3.04), PdAg-I (2.72), pure Pd (2.28), and commercial Pd/C (2.07). The onset potential of the PdAg-II NA was negatively shifted by 132, 180, 230, and 360 mV, respectively, compared with that of PdAg-II, PdAg-I, pure Pd, and commercial Pd/C catalysts (Figure 8e). The PdAg bimetallic NAs displayed more negative values than monometallic Pd catalysts. These electrochemical performances of the PdAg NAs were regarded as indicators of the change in the electronic structure of Pd after adding Ag. As shown in the above XRD and XPS spectra, the electronic structure of Pd was modified after incorporating Ag. The alloying PdAg catalyst with a large lattice constant can cause surface tensile strain and the d-band center of Pd upward, thus promoting the adsorption of glycerol and facilitating the oxidation of intermediates, which enhances the electrochemical performance in GOR.[39] Moreover, a comparison with the reported Pd-based catalysts for GOR shows that PdAg-III NA has comparable performance, as summarized in Table 1.

Accelerated durability tests (ADT) showed that, even after 500 cycles, the losses in mass activity were 10.89%, 16.13%, 21.80%, 39.80%, and 46.90% for the PdAg-III, PdAg-II, PdAg-I, pure Pd, and commercial Pd/C catalysts, respectively, as depicted in Figure 9. Specifically, Figure 9e illustrates the trend of mass activity variation for the five catalysts, highlighting that commercial Pd/C had the lowest stability. The observed decrease in activity in previous studies has been attributed to deactivation of the active site caused by reaction by-products, poisoning by CO, as well as blockage by surfactants.[4,45]

The stabilities of the above five catalysts were further investigated by chronoamperometric tests (Figure 10). During the reaction process, the current decay on the five electrode surfaces was observed due to the adsorption of the incomplete oxidized intermediates.[8,47–49] In this work, the GOR current densities were in the order of PdAg-III*>*PdAg-II*>*PdAg-I*>*pure Pd*>*commercial Pd/C electrocatalysts, meaning that the PdAg-III NA was superior to the above four catalysts. The ratio of current density at 60 and 5 min (i60/i5) is used as an indicator of the catalyst deterioration.[39] The i60/i5 ratios of the PdAg-III, PdAg-II, PdAg-I, Pd, and commercial Pd/C catalysts were 0.49,

|              | Table 1. Glycerol electrooxidation performance of Pd-based catalysts published in recent years. |           |                |                  |                  |                     |           |           |
|--------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------|----------------|------------------|------------------|---------------------|-----------|-----------|
| Catalysts    | Electrolyte                                                                                     | Scan rate | ECSA           | Mass<br>activity | Mass<br>activity | Special<br>activity | if<br>/ib | Ref.      |
|              |                                                                                                 | 1<br>mVs  | m2g 1          | mAmg 1<br>metal  | mAmg 1<br>Pd     | mAcm 2              |           |           |
| PdAg-III     | 1 M KOH+1 M glycerol                                                                            | 50        | 55.86          | 1195             | 1496             | 4.13                | 4.06      | This work |
| PdFe/C(MW)   | 1 M KOH+1 M glycerol                                                                            | 50        | 38.99          | –                | –                | 1.10                | 1.56      | [6]       |
| PdFe/rGO     | 1 M KOH+1 M glycerol                                                                            | 50        | 38.00          | –                | 1110             | 2.30                | –         | [43]      |
| PdNi/C       | 1 M KOH+0.5 M glycerol                                                                          | 50        |                | –                | 211              | 2.20                | –         | [44]      |
| AgPd (1:1)/C | 2 M KOH+1.5 M glycerol                                                                          | 20        | –              | –                | 220.27           | –                   | –         | [4]       |
| Pd5Au1/C     | 1 M KOH+1 M glycerol                                                                            | 20        | –              | 140.1            | –                | –                   | –         | [45]      |
| P D-PdCo3/C  | 0.1 M KOH+0.5 M glycerol                                                                        | 50        | 128.85 cm2mg 1 | –                | 65.90            | –                   | –         | [46]      |

**Figure 9.** CVs obtained before and after ADT for (a) PdAg-III, (b) PdAg-II, (c) PdAg-I, (d) pure Pd and (e) commercial Pd/C catalysts in 1 M KOH+1 M glycerol at a scan rate of 50 mVs 1 . (f) Durability properties of PdAg-I, PdAg-II, PdAg-II, pure Pd, and commercial Pd/C based on the onset peak current density for 500 cycles in 1 M KOH+1 M glycerol, at a scan rate of 50 mVs 1 . (g) Normalized mass activity of various catalysts after 500 cycles.

**Figure 10.** Chronoamperometric curves at a fixed potential of 0.3 V in the nitrogen-saturated aqueous solution of 1 M KOH + 1 M glycerol.

0.43, 0.36, 0.36, and 0.27, respectively, indicating that the degradation of PdAg-III NA was suppressed for electrolysis.

To explore the application of PdAg NAs in DAFCs, the EOR of the above five catalysts was further investigated. Figure 11 displays the CVs of the five catalysts toward EOR at a scan rate of 50 mVs <sup>1</sup> in 1 M KOH+1 M ethanol. The corresponding electrochemical parameters are listed in Table 2. The onset potential of the PdAg-III NA started at around 0.85 V and is negatively shifted by 20, 50, 140, and 170 mV, respectively,

**Figure 11.** (a–c) Metal-mass, ECSA, and Pd-mass normalized CVs of the PdAg-I, PdAg-II, PdAg-III, pure Pd and commercial Pd/C catalysts in 1 M KOH +1 M ethanol at a scan rate of 50 mVs 1 . (d) corresponding mass activities and specific activities of catalysts. (e) the magnified CVs from (c).

compared with that of PdAg-II, PdAg-I, pure Pd, and commercial Pd/C catalysts (Figure 11e). The PdAg bimetallic NAs displayed more negative values than monometallic Pd catalysts. Among the above five catalysts, PdAg-III NA showed the highest mass activity (2990 mAmg <sup>1</sup> Pd) and specific activity (7.86 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ) toward EOR, which was almost twice that of GOR (1496 mAmg <sup>1</sup> Pd and 4.13 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ), respectively. Compared with PdAg-II (1.14), PdAg-I (1.11), pure Pd (1.10), and commercial Pd/C (1.04), PdAg-III NA also presented the highest if /ib value of 1.46. Specifically, the electrochemical activity and antipoisoning ability of PdAg-III NA were also higher than previously reported (Table 3).

Accelerated durability tests for EOR showed a similar changing trend of mass activity to the GOR. PdAg-III NA retained up to 85.49% of the If at the end of the cycles (Figure 12f). In addition, a similar result was obtained during the chronoamperometric experiments, where PdAg-III NA provided about 3.96 times as much specific activity as pure Pd after 60 min (Figure 13). The i60/i5 ratio for the PdAg-III was higher than those of the above four catalysts, suggesting that the acceleration of EOR suppressed the deterioration of the PdAg-IIIelectrocatalyst.[39] In both GOR and EOR, the activity losses were more significant on pure Pd and commercial Pd/C. It indicated that the presence of Ag had a beneficial effect due to enhancing the adsorption of hydroxyl species on the electrocatalyst surface and preventing CO poisoning on the

| Catalysts       | ECSA  | if              | ib   | if           | ib   | if after 500<br>cycles | if<br>/ib | Specific<br>Activity | Loss rate after<br>500 cycles | i60    | i5   | i60/i5 |
|-----------------|-------|-----------------|------|--------------|------|------------------------|-----------|----------------------|-------------------------------|--------|------|--------|
|                 | m2g 1 | mAmg 1<br>metal |      | mAmg 1<br>Pd |      |                        |           | mAcm 2               | %                             | mAcm 2 |      |        |
| Commerical Pd/C | 28.72 | 216             | 207  | 216          | 207  | 136                    | 1.04      | 0.47                 | 37.04%                        | 0.01   | 0.12 | 0.08   |
| Pd              | 29.02 | 308             | 279  | 308          | 279  | 217                    | 1.10      | 1.40                 | 29.54%                        | 0.05   | 0.42 | 0.12   |
| PdAg-I          | 42.77 | 615             | 529  | 662          | 596  | 485                    | 1.11      | 1.92                 | 26.74%                        | 0.11   | 0.83 | 0.13   |
| PdAg-II         | 48.23 | 1138            | 1052 | 1303         | 1147 | 1080                   | 1.14      | 2.71                 | 17.11%                        | 0.16   | 1.04 | 0.15   |
| PdAg-III        | 55.86 | 2375            | 1638 | 2990         | 2053 | 2556                   | 1.46      | 7.86                 | 14.51%                        | 0.21   | 1.18 | 0.18   |

| Table 3. Ethanol electrooxidation performance of Pd-based catalysts published in recent years. |                     |           |               |                  |                  |                      |           |           |  |  |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------|-----------|---------------|------------------|------------------|----------------------|-----------|-----------|--|--|
| Catalysts                                                                                      | Electrolyte         | Scan rate | ECSA          | Mass<br>activity | Mass<br>activity | Specific<br>activity | if<br>/ib | Ref.      |  |  |
|                                                                                                |                     | 1<br>mVs  | m2g 1         | mAmg 1<br>metal  | mAmg 1<br>Pd     | mA cm 2              |           |           |  |  |
| PdAg-III                                                                                       | 1 M KOH+1 M ethanol | 50        | 55.86         | 2375             | 2990             | 7.86                 | 1.46      | This work |  |  |
| Pd17Se15NPs/C                                                                                  | 1 M KOH+1 M ethanol | 50        | 37.60         | –                | 2060             | 0.546                | –         | [50]      |  |  |
| Pd14Ag1                                                                                        | 1 M KOH+1 M ethanol | 50        | 39.07         | –                | 2430             | –                    | 1.21      | [51]      |  |  |
| PdCo                                                                                           | 1 M KOH+1 M ethanol | 50        | 32.02         | 1580             | –                | 4.93                 | –         | [52]      |  |  |
| PdNPs/C                                                                                        | 1 M KOH+1 M ethanol | 50        | 22.5          | –                | 861              | 3.80                 | 0.60      | [10]      |  |  |
| Pd2Ag1                                                                                         | 1 M KOH+1 M ethanol | 50        | 38.2          | 1866             | 2978             | –                    | –         | [33]      |  |  |
| Pd-NS-CTAB                                                                                     | 1 M KOH+1 M ethanol | 50        | 36.6          | 2145             | –                | 1.3                  | –         | [42]      |  |  |
| Pd9Pb                                                                                          | 1 M KOH+1 M ethanol | 50        | 441.5 cm2mg 1 | –                | 2620             | –                    | 1.34      | [53]      |  |  |

**Figure 12.** CVs obtained before and after ADT for (a) PdAg-III, (b) PdAg-II, (c) PdAg-I, (d) pure Pd, and (e) commercial Pd/C catalysts in 1 M KOH+1 M ethanol at a scan rate of 50 mVs 1 . (f) Durability properties of PdAg-III, PdAg-II, PdAg-I, pure Pd, and commercial Pd/C based on the onset peak current density for 500 cycles in 1 M KOH+1 M ethanol at a scan rate of 50 mVs 1 . (g) Normalized mass activity of various catalysts after 500 cycles.

active sites.[54] On the other hand, the electrochemical data on PdAg-III NA for both GOR and EOR were superior to those of the PdAg-II and PdAg-I, indicating sufficient surface active sites exposited in PdAg-II NA due to the unique 1D PdAg nanostructure rich in defects.

**Figure 13.** Chronoamperometric curves at a fixed potential of 0.3 V in the nitrogen-saturated aqueous solution of 1 M KOH+1 M ethanol.

# **Conclusions**

In brief, 1D branched PdAg NA with abundant defects (line dislocation, lattice distortion, and twin boundary) was successfully prepared via a visible light-assisted liquid-phase method. The electronic structure of the Pd in the alloy was improved after the addition of Ag, as evidenced by XRD and XPS analysis results. Notably, the optimized PdAg NA demonstrated superior electrochemical performances toward EOR compared to GOR, and both were higher than those of pure Pd and the commercial Pd/C catalysts, which can be attributed to the alloying between Pd and Ag. In particular, among the three PdAg NAs, the PdAg-III NA showed the best electrocatalytic activity, long-term durability, and anti-poisoned tolerance for both GOR and EOR, likely due to its unique 1D nanostructure rich in defects. This study represents the pioneering effort to establish a direct correlation between structural characteristics

and catalytic performance, thereby providing valuable insights for the design of low-cost electrocatalysts in the future.

# *Acknowledgements*

The authors gratefully acknowledge the support financially from the Open Project of the Key Laboratory of Clean Energy Material Chemistry in Guangdong General University (No. CEMC 2022006), Lingnan Normal University School Project (No. LT2409), and Guangdong Basic and Applied Basic Research Foundation (No. 2022A1515011970).

## *Conflict of Interests*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## *Data Availability Statement*

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

**Keywords:** PdAg nanoalloy **·** Defect **·** Glycerol **·** Ethanol **·** Oxidation reaction

- [1] J. M. Sieben, A. E. Alvarez, M. D. Sanchez, *J. Alloy. [Compd.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2022.166112)* **2022**, *921*, [166112](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2022.166112).
- [2] E. Antolini, E. R. Gonzalez, *J. Power [Sources](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2009.11.145)* **2010**, *195*, 3431.
- [3] C. Bianchini, P. K. Shen, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/cr9000995) Rev.* **2009**, *109*, 4183.
- [4] F. Mares-Briones, I. Velázquez-Hernández, M. A. González-Reyna, O. Cortazar-Martinez, M. Estévez, R. Esparza, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energ.* **2024**, *1*, 140.
- [5] Y. Jin, J. Chen, R. Li, J. Chen, J. Wang, T. Huang, X. Zhang, G. Du, K. Cao, B. Liao, Y. Wang, J. Su, F. Xu, N. Wang, Y. Wang, X. Luo, J. Wang, W. Ma, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2024**, *648*, [159093.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.159093)
- [6] N. E. Mphahlele, A. K. Ipadeola, A. B. Haruna, P. V. Mwonga, R. M. Modibedi, N. Palaniyandy, C. Billing, K. I. Ozoemena, *[Electrochim.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2022.139977) Acta* **2022**, *409*, [139977.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2022.139977)
- [7] S. Sankar, G. M. Anilkumar, T. Tamaki, T. Yamaguchi, *ACS Appl. [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.8b00790) [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.8b00790)* **2018**, *1*, 4140.
- [8] F. Ren, L. Xu, H. Xu, Y. Tang, Z. Liu, Y. Du, *J. Alloy. [Compd.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2020.157075)* **2021**, *854*, [157075](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2020.157075).
- [9] C. Chen, X. Lao, Y. Zhao, M. Niu, P. Guo, *ACS Appl. Nano [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.4c01900)* **2024**, *7*, [13426.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.4c01900)
- [10] F. Wen, M. Song, X. Du, W. Zhuang, C. Zhao, L. Sun, *Int. J. [Hydrogen](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2023.09.010) [Energ.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2023.09.010)* **2024**, *51*, 846.
- [11] X. J. Liu, X. Yin, Y. D. Sun, F. J. Yu, X. W. Gao, L. J. Fu, Y.P Wu, Y. H. Chen, *[Nanoscale](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0NR00046A)* **2020**, *12*, 5368.
- [12] M. T. X. Nguyen, M. K. Nguyen, P. T. T. Pham, H. K. P. Huynh, S. T. Nguyen, *Int. J. [Hydrogen](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2020.10.226) Energ.* **2021**, *46*, 3909.
- [13] D. Huo, M. J. Kim, Z. Lyu, Y. Shi, B. J. Wiley, Y. Xia, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.8b00745) Rev.* **2019**, *119*, [8972.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.8b00745)
- [14] H. Yin, S. Zhao, K. Zhao, A. Muqsit, H. Tang, L. Chang, H. Zhao, Y. Gao, Z. Tang, *Nat. Commun.* **2015**, *6*, 6430.
- [15] H. W. Kim, S. H. Shim, *[Vacuum](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.vacuum.2008.03.074)* **2008**, *82*, 1395.
- [16] D. Wang, C. Lieber, *Nat. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat908)* **2003**, *2*, 355.
- [17] X. Li, K. X. Yao, F. Zhao, X. Yang, J. Li, Y. Li, Q. Yuan, *[Nano](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-022-4299-1) Res.* **2022**, *15*, [6036.](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-022-4299-1)
- [18] D. Yan, Y. Li, J. Huo, R. Chen, L. Dai, S. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1606459.
- [19] L. Cai, J. He, Q. Liu, T. Yao, L. Chen, W. Yan, F. Hu, Y. Jiang, Y. Zhao, T. Hu, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja5120908) Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 2622.

- [20] T. Ling, D. Y. Yan, Y. Jiao, H. Wang, Y. Zheng, X. Zheng, J. Mao, X. W. Du, Z. Hu, M. jaroniec, S. Z. Qiao, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, *7*, 12876.
- [21] S. Gao, Y. Lin, X. Jiao, Y. Sun, Q. Luo, W. Zhang, D. Li, J. Yang, Y. Xie, *[Nature](https://doi.org/10.1038/nature16455)* **2016**, *529*, 68.
- [22] J. Xie, H. Zhang, S. Li, R. Wang, X. Sun, M. Zhou, J. Zhou, X. Wen, Y. Xie, *Adv. Mater.* **2013**, *40*, 5807.
- [23] F. Cheng, J. Shen, B. Peng, Y. Pan, Z. Tao, J. Chen, *Nat. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nchem.931)* **2011**, *3*, [79](https://doi.org/10.1038/nchem.931).
- [24] C. S. Ramya, S. Selvasekarapandian, T. Savitha, G. Hirankumar, P. C. Angelo, *[Physica](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.physb.2006.11.021) B* **2007**, *393*, 11.
- [25] S. Fu, C. Zhu, D. Du, Y. Lin, *ACS Appl. Mater. [Interfaces](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.5b01963)* **2015**, *7*, 13842.
- [26] C. D. Wagner, W. M. Riggs, L. E. Davis, J. F. Moulder, G. E. Muilenberg, *Handbook of X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy: A Reference Book of Standard Data for Use in X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy*, 1st ed. Physical Electronics Division, Perkin-Elmer Corp., Eden Prairie, Minnesota, USA, **1979**.
- [27] Z. Yin, Y. Zhang, K. Chen, J. Li, W. Li, P. Tang, H. Zhao, Q. Zhu, X. Bao, D. Ma, *Sci. Rep.* **2014**, *4*, 4288.
- [28] D. Bin, B. Yang, K. Zhang, C. Wang, J. Wang, J. Zhong, Y. Feng, J. Guo, Y. Du, *Chem. Eur. J.* **2016**, *22*, 1.
- [29] C. Hu, X. Mu, J. Fan, H. Ma, X. Zhao, G. Chen, Z. Zhou, N. Zheng, *[ChemNanoMat](https://doi.org/10.1002/cnma.201500162)* **2016**, *2*, 28.
- [30] S. Sarkar, S. D. Ramarao, T. Das, R. Das, C. P. Vinod, S. Chakraborty, S. C. Peter, *ACS [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c03415)* **2021**, *11*, 800.
- [31] L. Huang, X. Zheng, G. Gao, H. Zhang, K. Rong, J. Chen, Y. Liu, X. Zhu, W. Wu, Y. Wang, J. Wang, S. Dong, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c00656) Soc.* **2021**, *143*, 6933.
- [32] F. Pang, F. Wang, L. Yang, Z. Wang, W. Zhang, *Chem. [Commun.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9CC04460D)* **2019**, *55*, [10108.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9CC04460D)
- [33] M. Yang, X. Lao, J. Sun, N. Ma, S. Wang, W. Ye, P. Guo, *[Langmuir](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.0c02102)* **2020**, *36*, [11094.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.0c02102)
- [34] H. Wang, H. W. Lee, Y. Deng, Z. Lu, P. C. Hsu, Y. Liu, D. lin, Y. Cui, *Nat. Commun.* **2015**, *6*, 7261.
- [35] A. Ashok, A. Kumar, *Int. J. [Hydrogen](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2020.04.118) Energ.* **2021**, *46*, 4788.
- [36] Z. X. Liang, T. S. Zhao, J. B. Xu, L. D. Zhu, *[Electrochim.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2008.10.034) Acta* **2009**, *54*, [2203.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2008.10.034)
- [37] M. W. Breiter, *J. [Electroanal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0022-0728(77)80023-5) Chem.* **1977**, *81*, 275.
- [38] V. Balaramachandran, K. N. Srinivasan, V. Kapali, *[Corros.](https://doi.org/10.1016/0010-938X(91)90042-N) Sci.* **1991**, *32*, [185.](https://doi.org/10.1016/0010-938X(91)90042-N)
- [39] B. T. X. Lam, M. Chiku, E. Higuchi, H. Inoue, *J. Power [Sources](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2015.07.086)* **2015**, *297*, [149.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2015.07.086)
- [40] A. M. M. Adam, M. Deng, A. Zhu, Q. Zhang, Q. Liu, *Electrochim. Acta* **2020**, *339*, 135929.
- [41] Y. Y. Yang, J. Ren, H. X. Zhang, Z. Y. Zhou, S. G. Sun, W. B. Cai, *[Langmuir](https://doi.org/10.1021/la305141q)* **[2013](https://doi.org/10.1021/la305141q)**, *29*, 1709.
- [42] M. Yang, M. Pang, J. Chen, F. Gao, H. Li, P. Guo, *ACS Appl. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.0c20146) [Interfaces](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.0c20146)* **2021**, *13*, 9830.
- [43] A. Cassani, N. Tuleushova, Q. Wang, H. Guesmi, V. Bonniol, J. Cambedouzou, S. Tingry, M. Bechelany, D. Cornu, Y. Holade, *ACS [Appl.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.1c01920) [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.1c01920) Mater.* **2021**, *4*, 9944.
- [44] J. White, I. Terekhina, E. C.d. Santos, D. Martín-Yerga, L. G. M. Pettersson, M. Johnsson, A. Cornell, *ACS Appl. [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.3c02789) Mater.* **2024**, *7*, 1802.
- [45] I. Velazquez-Hernandez, E. Zamudio, F. J. Rodríguez-Valadez, N. A. Garcia-Gomez, L. Álvarez-Contreras, M. Guerra-Balcázar, N. Arjona, *Fuel* **2020**, *262*, 116556.
- [46] S. Imhanria, X. Deng, T. Tan, J. Deng, L. Xu, W. Wang, *J. Alloy. [Compd.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2021.159058)* **2021**, *868*, [159058.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2021.159058)
- [47] A. Mondal, A. De, J. Datta, *Appl. Catal. [A-Gen.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcata.2018.05.015)* **2018**, *561*, 87.
- [48] N. Ye, Y. Bai, Z. Jiang, T. Fang, *Int. J. [Hydrogen](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2020.08.257) Energ.* **2020**, *45*, 32022.
- [49] G. Sheng, J. Chen, H. Ye, Z. Hu, X. Z. Fu, R. Sun, W. Huang, C. P. Wong, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2018.03.039) [Colloid](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2018.03.039) Interf. Sci.* **2018**, *522*, 264.
- [50] Z. Hu, L. Huang, M. Ma, L. Xu, H. Liu, W. Xu, J. Yang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2405945.
- [51] J. Chen, M. Yang, M. Pang, F. Gao, P. Guo, *Colloid. [Surface.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.colsurfa.2021.127404) A* **2021**, *629*, [127404.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.colsurfa.2021.127404)
- [52] X. Chu, X. Wang, R. Wei, M. Yan, X. Wei, X. Zhang, Z. Zhu, Y. Wang, L. Wang, S. Yin, *Mater. Today Phys.* **2024**, *43*, [101416.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mtphys.2024.101416)
- [53] L. Zang, J. Yan, M. Pang, B. Zhang, J. Chen, P. Guo, *[Langmuir](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.1c02324)* **2021**, *37*, [13132.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.langmuir.1c02324)
- [54] A. Santoveña, C. Rodriguez-Proenza, J. A. Maya-Cornejo, A. Ruiz-Baltazar, D. Bahena, J. Ledesma, R. Pérez, R. Esparza, *MRS Adv.* **[2017](https://doi.org/10.1557/adv.2017.561)**, *2*, 2857.

Manuscript received: November 12, 2024 Accepted manuscript online: January 9, 2025 Version of record online: January 21, 2025