---
source: Tanuja 等 - 2025 - Tuning the d‐Band Center via Strain and Ligand Effects in Core–Shell Pentatwinned Au@Pd Nanoparticle.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 78.857s
generated: 2026-01-09T05:10:37.970819Z
---

# **Tuning the d-Band Center via Strain and Ligand Effects in Core–Shell Pentatwinned Au@Pd Nanoparticles for Enhanced Ethanol Oxidation Reaction**

*Tanuja, Shalini Tomar, Tukai Singha, and Biswarup Satpati\**

**The successful commercialization of direct ethanol fuel cells (DEFCs) hinges on the development of highly efficient electrocatalysts capable of overcoming key performance limitations. In this study, the core–shell Au@Pd pentatwinned decahedral nanoparticles has been synthesized with controlled Pd shell thicknesses, varying in the average number of Pd monolayers over the Au core. This core-shell configuration promotes the epitaxial growth of Pd atoms with varying degrees of tensile strain. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations reveal that increasing tensile strain shifts the d-band center closer to the Fermi level. Notably, when the Pd shell is three monolayers, the upward shift of the d-band center is maximum, and this further amplified by the ligand effect from the underlying Au core. The synergistic influence of five twin boundaries, tensile strain, and ligand interactions collectively tunes the d-band center, resulting in the Au@Pd-3 catalyst achieving an exceptional mass activity of 25.67 A mgPd<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and a specific activity of 21.30 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, representing enhancements of 38.31-fold and 11.39-fold, respectively, over commercial Pd/C. This study highlights how the combined effects of strain and ligand interactions can be strategically harnessed to design high-performance electrocatalysts by tuning the position of d-band center.**

#### **1. Introduction**

Direct alcohol fuel cells (DAFCs) have emerged as a viable and sustainable bio-renewable energy source, offering substantial potential to address the global energy crisis driven by the rapid depletion of fossil fuel reserves and the increasing environmental burden associated with their combustion.[\[1\]](#page-9-0) Alcohols offer advantages over hydrogen as fuel due to their higher energy densities, lower costs, and ease of storage and transportation.[\[2\]](#page-9-0) Among

Tanuja, T. Singha, B. Satpati Surface Physics & Material Science Division Saha Institute of Nuclear Physics A CI of Homi Bhabha National Institute 1/AF Bidhannagar, Kolkata 700064, India E-mail: [biswarup.satpati@saha.ac.in](mailto:biswarup.satpati@saha.ac.in) S. Tomar Indo-Korea Science and Technology Center (IKST) KIST

Bangalore 560065, India

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202514936>

**DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202514936**

commonly studied liquid fuels such as methanol, ethanol, formic acid, and ethylene glycol, ethanol offers a relatively high energy density of 8.01 kW.h kg<sup>−</sup>1; however, its complete electro-oxidation involves a complex 12-electron transfer process and the formation of multiple intermediates, resulting in sluggish reaction kinetics.[\[3–5\]](#page-9-0) Numerous studies have focused on synthesizing noble metal-based electrocatalysts, particularly those incorporating Pt, Pd, and Rh, along with multimetallic nanoparticles, to mitigate the sluggish kinetics of ethanol oxidation in alkaline media.[\[6–10\]](#page-9-0) As a result, considerable research has been focused on developing highly efficient and stable electrocatalysts, as well as improving the utilization of scarce noble metals; both of which are essential for boosting the performance of ethanol oxidation reactions and advancing the commercialization of DEFCs.[\[11\]](#page-9-0)

Among noble metals, palladium has proved to be an efficient electrocatalyst for ethanol oxidation reaction (EOR) in alkaline medium.[\[12\]](#page-9-0) Among

these approaches, strain engineering has notably improved EOR performance by inducing tensile or compressive strain in the Pd lattice through alloying and epitaxial growth of Pd on other elemental substrates.[\[9,13–18\]](#page-9-0) One of the efficient ways is to synthesize core–shell nanoparticles, which can induce strain into the shell via epitaxial growth of shell atoms over the core element through lattice mismatch, improve the effective utilization of the shell material, and provide stability to the nanoparticle under harsh conditions.[\[19–25\]](#page-10-0) The change in the lattice parameter modifies the overlapping of atomic orbitals between neighbouring atoms, which can shift the d-band center toward or away from the Fermi level, affecting the binding energy of the adsorbates or intermediates of the reaction.[\[26,27\]](#page-10-0) In addition to the epitaxial growth of two different elements, crystallographic defects, such as stacking faults within twin boundaries, serve as hotspots for an enhanced number of electrocatalytic active sites, as they introduce unsaturated bonds that modify the surface energy of the electrocatalyst.[\[17,21,22\]](#page-9-0) Additionally, twin boundaries induce non-uniform lattice strain, which can alter the intrinsic electronic configuration of noble metals such as palladium and affect the position of the d-band center with respect to the Fermi level.[\[9,16–18,28–31\]](#page-9-0) The shifting of the d-band

<span id="page-1-0"></span>Figure 1. a) Schematic diagram representing formation of Au@Pd. b) Schematic diagram of Au@Pd pentatwinned decahedra NP. c) BF-TEM image of Au NPs. Inset: Average size of Au NPs. d) HRTEM image of an Au NP. Inset: FFT pattern of twin boundary marked under the orange box area. e) Fourier filtered image of the corresponding twin boundary. f) FFT pattern and g) corresponding image of single crystal region marked in red box.

centre can also be tuned by introducing some other elements like Au, Ag, etc., which alter the intrinsic electronic configuration of noble atoms like Pd, Pt, etc., to further enhance EOR activity and decrease the poisoning impact of some intermediates like CO.<sup>[8,17,32–34]</sup>

In this direction, we synthesized Au@Pd core–shell nanoparticles with a pentatwinned decahedral morphology, comprising a gold (Au) core and a palladium (Pd) shell with a varying average number of palladium monolayers. The epitaxial growth of Pd shell on the top of the Au core generated tensile strain within the Pd shell lattice, with the strain magnitude controlled by varying the shell thickness. Accordingly, we synthesized Au@Pd nanostructures with different average number of Pd monolayers, which are designated as Au@Pd-x (x = 2, 3, 7, 10,13). Epitaxial growth of the Au@Pd core–shell structure induced  $\approx 4.91\%$  tensile strain into the Pd shell with 7 monolayers, enhancing ethanol oxidation reaction (EOR) mass activity to 12.13 A  $mg_{Pd}^{-1}$ , which is 18.10 times higher than the commercial Pd/C. Reducing the Pd shell thickness to 3 monolayers further elevated EOR mass activity to 25.67 A  $mg_{Pd}^{-1}$  (38.31 times higher than Pd/C), at-

tributed to the dominant ligand effect from the Au core at reduced Pd shell thickness. This ligand effect also mitigates CO poisoning, as evidenced by the reduced CO-stripping overpotential observed for nanoparticles with thinner Pd shells. Hence, synthesized nanoparticle Au@Pd-3 shows much enhanced EOR electrocatalytic activity, which is superior to most of the reported research works so far. [9,16-19,28,35-45]

#### 2. Results and Discussion

The core-shell gold pentatwinned decahedra nanoparticles were synthesized via a seed-mediated growth method, as shown in **Figure 1**, reported in the previous literature. [16,46] A schematic diagram of pentatwinned core-shell decahedra Au@Pd is shown in Figure 1b. The morphology of as-synthesised nanoparticles was analysed using transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) after drop casting them on a carbon-coated copper grid. The bright-field (BF) TEM image in Figure 1c shows that the maximum number of gold nanoparticles (Au NPs) are pentatwinned

Figure 2. a–c) BF-TEM images; (a.1–c.1) HRTEM images; (a.2–c.2) Fourier filtered images of the red box marked region of Au@Pd-3, Au@Pd-7, and Au@Pd-13, respectively. (a.1-c.1) also shows the core-shell interface boundary of Au@PdNPs.

decahedra with an average size of 24.43 nm. Figure 1d shows a high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) image of a gold nanoparticle (Au NP), where all five twin boundaries are distinctly observed, connecting the five single-crystal regions. A decahedron is formed when five tetrahedra unite together at (111) planes along a <110> axis, but the dihedral angle of a tetrahedron is  $\approx 70.53^{\circ}$ . When five single tetrahedra unite together, they cover only  $\approx$ 352.6° of angle, hence there will be an angular gap of ≈7.35°. [47] This slight angular gap is accommodated by the presence of twinned boundaries, which have been consistently shown in various studies to contribute positively to the enhancement of electrocatalytic performance. [9,16-21,28] The fast Fourier transform (FFT) pattern of one of the five twinned boundaries marked in the orange box in Figure 1d is shown in the inset of the figure, and the corresponding Fourier filtered image is shown in Figure 1e. Figure 1f,g shows the FFT pattern and Fourier filtered image of the single crystal region marked in the red box in Figure 1c. The Fourier filtered image shows the lattice spacings of 0.235, 0.203, and 0.123 nm, which can be assigned to (111), (200), and (311) planes of the face-centered cubic (fcc) Au lattice, respectively. On the top of this Au pentatwinned decahedra nanoparticles Pd shell was grown via seed-mediated growth method.[16] The average number of palladium monolayers was controlled by varying the concentration of Pd precursors introduced into the reaction solution. The average number of palladium monolayers were calculated as mentioned in the supporting information (Figure S1 and Table S1, Supporting Information). The BF-TEM images of these core-shell

nanoparticles are shown in Figures 2 and S2A,B (Supporting Information), along with their size distribution. These BF-TEM images confirm the successful formation of Au@Pd core-shell nanostructures, as evidenced by the discernible twinned boundaries in the majority of the nanoparticles. The contrast present in BF-TEM images of Au@Pd-10 and Au@Pd-13 between the gold core and the palladium shell indicates effective core-shell nanostructure formation. The contrast in HRTEM images of Au@Pd-7, Au@Pd-10, and Au@Pd-13 clearly shows the distinction. between the Au core and the Pd shell (Figures 2b,1,c,1; and S5, Supporting Information). The interplanar spacing into the Pd shell Au@Pd-2, Au@Pd-3, and Au@Pd-7 obtained from the corresponding HRTEM images was 0.235 nm for all three NPs, Figures S4 (Supporting Information) and 2a,2-b,2. Interestingly, this interplanar is much larger than Pd lattice ( $d_{111} = 0.224 \text{ nm}$ ) but the same as Au lattice ( $d_{111} = 0.235$  nm). This larger interplanar spacing signifies the presence of tensile strain in Pd shell due to epitaxial growth of Pd atoms on the top of Au core. [16] However, HRTEM analysis of Au@Pd-10 and Au@Pd-13 shows interplanar spacing of 0.228 and 0.227 nm, respectively, indicating a gradual decrease in tensile strain with increasing Pd shell thickness. This decrease is attributed to the relaxation of Pd atoms toward their intrinsic lattice parameter due to the lattice mismatch between Au and Pd atoms.[17] The increase in thickness of shells diminishes the influence of lattice strain imposed by the underlying Au core. [16] The fivefold twin boundaries observed in the HRTEM images extend uninterrupted to the edges of the

16163028, 0, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202514936 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [08/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/rems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA article are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Leense and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/rems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA article are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Leense and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/rems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA article are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Leense and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/rems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA article are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Leense and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/rems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA article are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Leense and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/rems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA article are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Leense and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/rems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use and the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/rems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use and the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/rems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use and the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/rems-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use and the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/rems-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/rems-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/rems-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (ht

Figure 3. a-c) STEM-HAADF images. (a.1-a.4), (b.1-b.4), and (c.1-c.4) EDX Elemental mapping of core shell NP under box in (a-c) of Au@Pd-3, Au@Pd-7, and Au@Pd-13 core-shell NP, respectively. (a.5-c.5) EDX line profile along red line shown in (a-c) for Au@Pd-3, Au@Pd-7, and Au@Pd-13, respectively.

nanoparticles, preserving the morphology of Au pentatwinned decahedra nanoparticles and confirming the successful synthesis of well-defined pentatwinned Au@Pd-x nanostructures. The contrast in STEM-HAADF (high-angle annular dark field) images of Au@Pd-x shows the presence of pentatwinned boundaries in all NPs and the formation of core-shell nanostructures in Au@Pd-7, Au@Pd-10, and Au@Pd-13 (Figures 3a-c; and S6, Supporting Information). The formation of core-shell nanostructure was further confirmed through energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX) element mapping and line scan profile of gold and palladium, as shown in Figures 3 and S6 (Supporting Information). Elemental mapping confirms that, except Au@Pd-2, all Au@Pdx nanoparticles exhibit a uniform Pd shell fully encapsulating the Au core, indicative of well-formed core-shell nanostructures. The core-shell morphology and lattice spacings observed in HRTEM images confirm the epitaxial growth of Pd shell atoms on the Au

core thereby inducing tensile strain within the Pd lattice due to lattice mismatch.

However, to further quantify the degree of tensile strain induced in Pd shell of all Au@Pd-x electrocatalysts, X-ray diffraction measurements were performed. In Figure 4a, XRD data of Au, Au@Pd-2, Au@Pd-3, and Au@Pd-7 show a single peak corresponding to the (111) plane at an angle of 38.20°, while Au@Pd-10 and Au@Pd-13 show an additional peak at 38.42° and 39.70°, respectively. The XRD peak at 38.20° corresponds to the interplanar spacing of 0.235 nm, while the other peaks at 38.42° and 39.70° correspond to the interplanar spacing of 0.228 and 0.226 nm. The XRD peak at 40.20° of Pd corresponds to the interplanar spacing of 0.224 nm. Hence, it can be inferred from the XRD data that Pd follows the same lattice parameter as Au in the Au@Pd-2, Au@Pd-3, and Au@Pd-7 nanoparticles, having 4.91% strain in the shell, signifying the epitaxial growth of Pd atoms over Au

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 4.** a) XRD patterns of Pd, Au and Au@Pd-*x* core-shell NPs. b) Table for calculated strain using XRD pattern. c) XPS spectra of Pd-3d for Au@Pd-*x* core-shell NPs.

atoms. The tensile strain tends to decrease with the increase in Pd shell thickness because the Pd atoms tend to relax to their standard lattice parameter with the increase in the shell thickness. Hence, the tensile strain in Au@Pd-10 and Au@Pd-13 is 1.78% and 1.34%, respectively, which is lower than that of other nanoparticles, as calculated from XRD data in Figure 4b. [\[16,17\]](#page-9-0)

Further, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy was used to analyse the binding energy of Au@Pd and the commercial Pd/C nanoparticles. The XPS spectra were calibrated using the standard binding energy of C 1s (284.6 eV) as a reference. In XPS spectrum of commercial Pd/C, four distinct peaks were observed at 335.26, 336.36, 340.46, and 341.66 eV. The binding energy (B.E.) peaks corresponding to 335.26 and 340.46 eV are assigned to 3d5/2 and 3d3/2 of Pd0, respectively. The peaks observed at 336.36 and 341.66 eV are assigned to 3d5/2 and 3d3/2 of Pd2<sup>+</sup>, respectively. Similarly, the four peaks appeared at 334.70, 340.06, 336.87, and 342.07 eV in the XPS spectra of Au@Pd-3. Tensile strain in the Pd lattice, resulting from epitaxial growth on the top of Au core, leads to an increased interatomic distance, which reduces the overlap of atomic orbitals and decreases the coordination number of Pd atoms. This structural relaxation results in a narrowing of the d-band width. To preserve the constant d-band filling, the d-band center shifts upward toward the Fermi level. This shift enhances the density of states near the Fermi level, making the d-electrons more chemically active and susceptible to ionization.[\[48\]](#page-10-0) Hence, peaks located at 334.70, 340.06, 336.87, and 342.07 eV were assigned to 3d5/2 and 3d3/2 of Pd0, 3d5/2 and 3d3/2 of Pd2<sup>+</sup>, respectively. An increase in the negative shift of the binding energy of Pd 3d is observed in the XPS spectra with the increase of tensile strain, indicating the influence of tensile strain on the electronic structure of Pd. Hence, tensile strain can induce shifts in the core-level binding energy of Pd, as reported in previous studies.[\[49–51\]](#page-10-0) The B.E. of other nanoparticles also decreases for 3d5/2 and 3d3/2 of Pd0 than pure Pd as the thickness of the Pd shell decreases. The order of negative shift in B.E. with increasing degree of tensile strain of Pd shell atoms is observed as Pd/C *<* Au@Pd-13 *<* Au@Pd-10 *<* Au@Pd-7 *<* Au@Pd-3. In addition to these four peaks, a fifth peak corresponding to 4d5/2 of Au<sup>0</sup> appeared at 332.8 eV.[\[9,52\]](#page-9-0) The negative shift in core-level B.E. of Au 4f is observed, which can be attributed to charge transfer from Au→ Pd. This negative shift increases with decrease in number of Pd monolayers, Figure S7 (Supporting Information). The negative shift in B.E. of Au 4f between Pd/C and Au@Pd-7 is 0.40 eV, while between Pd/C and Au@Pd-3 is 0.56 eV. This larger negative shift can be attributed to a significant contribution from gold, which can be supported by the appearance of Au<sup>0</sup> peak in the XPS spectrum of Au@Pd-3. The ligand effect of gold becomes more dominant with the decrease in the number of Pd monolayers.[\[9,53\]](#page-9-0) Hence, the overall negative shifts in binding energy can be attributed to enhanced electron transfer, resulting from the combined effects of twinned boundaries, significant tensile strain, and the ligand influence of gold. This negative shift

**Figure 5.** a) Cyclic voltammograms taken at room temperature in 1 m KOH solution at a sweep rate of 50 mV s−<sup>1</sup> of Au@Pd-*x* (*x* = 2, 3, 7, 10, 13) NPs and Pd/C. b) ECSA (Electrochemical Active Surface Area) of Pd/C and Au@Pd-*x* NPs. c) CO-stripping voltammograms of all Au@Pd NPs and Pd/C taken in CO-saturated 1 m KOH solution at a sweep rate of 50 mV s<sup>−</sup>1, where solid and dotted curve represents the first and second cycle, respectively, and the vertical line marks the onset potentials for each electrocatalyst.

in B.E. may increase the adsorption of ethanol and its intermediates formed during EOR on the electrocatalyst's surface.[\[54\]](#page-10-0) As the thickness of the palladium shell decreases to 3 monolayers, gold atoms may also play a significant role in transferring electrons to palladium atoms, which can further upshift the d-band centre, leading to enhanced adsorption of ethanol and can enhance EOR electrocatalytic activity.[\[17,22,34,55\]](#page-9-0)

Before the evaluation of electrocatalytic activity for EOR, the adsorption ability of each electrocatalyst for OH\* was assessed via cyclic voltammetry (CV) in 1 m KOH solution. The adsorption behavior of OH\* on the electrocatalyst surface resembles the activation process of ethanol. The first half-cycle of CV corresponds to the formation of PdO monolayer, and the peak in the second half-cycle corresponds to the reduction of PdO monolayer on the surface of the electrocatalysts. Au@Pd-3 and Au@Pd-2 show an additional peak other than the PdO reduction peak at −0.230 V in the cathodic direction, similar to Au pentatwinned decahedra nanoparticles at −0.225 V, corresponding to desorption of OH\* from the Au surface as mentioned in previous studies (Figure S9, Supporting Information).[\[56\]](#page-10-0) It also shows evidence of the involvement of gold atoms in enhancing EOR activity. The electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) of each electrocatalyst was determined from the integrated area of the PdO reduction peak, Figure S10 (Supporting Information). The corresponding ECSA values were calculated to be 136.79, 120.49, 86.03, 54.60, 45.27, and 35.90 m<sup>2</sup> gPd<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> corresponding to Au@Pd-2, Au@Pd-3, Au@Pd-7, Au@Pd-10, Au@Pd-13, and Pd/C, respectively (**Figure 5**a,b). It suggests that ECSA increases with decreasing number of palladium monolayers, and Au@Pd-2 exhibits a larger ECSA than other nanoparticles. This enhancement in ECSA can be attributed to core-shell morphology and presence of high degree of tensile strain induced by epitaxial growth of Pd shell. Particularly, Au@Pd-2, Au@Pd-3, and Au@Pd-7 have the same degree of tensile strain, but Au@Pd-2 NPs possess the thinnest Pd shell compare to others, which increase the ECSA and utility of the precious metal. The CO-stripping experiment was conducted in a CO-saturated 1 m KOH solution to investigate the tolerance of these nanoparticles under harsh condition. As can be observed from Figure 5c, a cathodic shift in the onset potential is observed in comparison to commercial Pd/C as Pd shell thickness decreases from 13 monolayers to 2 monolayers. In this experiment, the bubbled CO is assumed to be adsorbed on the surface of the electrocatalysts, which combines with OH\*, forming COOH\*, leading to the decomposition of CO2. The increase in tensile strain, twinned boundaries, and the ligand effect of gold, these factors can upshift the d-band center appreciably, leading to an enhancement of increase in OH\* affinity, which enhances the tolerance of these electrocatalysts against CO

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 6.** Cyclic voltammograms a) Mass Activity b) Specific Activity of Au@Pd-*x* electrocatalyst in a solution containing 1 m ethanol and 1 m KOH recorded at room temperature at a sweep rate of 50 mV s−<sup>1</sup> c) Comparison of mass and specific activities among all electrocatalyst used in this work in comparison to Pd/C. d) i–t curves were obtained at room temperature in a solution 1 m ethanol and 1 m KOH at constant voltage versus Ag/AgCl. e) Comparison of mass activities of Au@Pd-*x* electrocatalysts while i–t tests continue for 10, 1000, and 6000s. f) Cyclic voltammograms of Au@Pd-3 electrocatalysts after i-t test. g) Cyclic voltammograms of Au@Pd-3 electrocatalysts after 90 days. h) Tafel plots of Au@Pd-*x* and Pd/C electrocatalysts. i) Comparison of EOR activity of Au@Pd-3 with the values of Pd-based electrocatalysts reported previously.[\[9,10,16,17,35,38\]](#page-9-0)

poisoning.[\[9,16–18,29,31,55,57,58](#page-9-0)] We also checked the pentatwinned Au NPs for CO-stripping and found the reason of peculiar shape of Au@Pd-2 is due to exposed surface of Au, Figure S11 (Supporting Information).

The electrocatalytic activity of all the nanoparticles and commercial Pd/C toward ethanol oxidation reaction (EOR) was probed through CV measurements in a solution containing 1 m KOH and 1 m ethanol at 50 mV s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> sweep rate. Two peaks were observed during CV measurements, first in the forward scan corresponding to oxidation of ethanol, and second in the backward scan corresponding to oxidation and desorption of carbonaceous molecules.[[10\]](#page-9-0) Au@Pd-2, Au@Pd-3, Au@Pd-7, Au@Pd-10, and Au@Pd-13 showed an enhanced EOR mass activity of 18.72, 25.67, 12.13, 6.83, and 2.60 A mgPd<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and specific activity of 13.68, 21.30, 14.10, 12.51, 5.74, and 1.87 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, respectively, **Figure 6**a–c. Au@Pd-13, Au@Pd-10, and Au@Pd-7 with 1.34%, 1.78%, and 4.91% tensile strain, respectively, showed 3.88, 10.19, and 18.10 times higher mass activity in comparison to commercial Pd/C. This enhanced change in electrocatalytic activity of these nanoparticles can be attributed to the core-shell configuration of Au@Pd-*x*, change in the lattice spacing due to tensile strain, as well as to the five twinned boundaries present in these nanoparticles. Au@Pd-7, Au@Pd-3, and Au@Pd-2 showed 18.10, 38.31, and 27.94 times higher EOR mass activities despite having an equal amount of tensile strain of 4.91%. This change in EOR mass activity in Au@Pd-3 can be attributed to the ligand effect of gold, as evidenced by the presence of the desorption of OH peak on Au surface in 1 m KOH solution. As the average number of palladium layers is very low, three for Au@Pd-3 and two for Au@Pd-2, it can be suggested that the gold electrons are playing a crucial role by participating in the charge transfer process in the oxidation of ethanol during CV measurements.[\[53,59\]](#page-10-0) To test the durability of the electrocatalysts, the chronoamperometry was performed in 1 m ethanol and 1 m KOH at a constant potential for 6000 s. These chronoamperometric i-t curves are shown in Figure 6c,d, it can be seen that the core-shell

electrocatalyst Au@Pd-3 with average three palladium monolayers showed highest electrocatalytic activity for EOR for longer duration while the mass activity of core shell electrocatalyst Au@Pd-2 fall rapidly, the reason of this fall can be non-uniform coverage of palladium layer over gold core as suggested by EDS elemental mapping as well as drop in desorption of intermediate carbonaceous species. After i-t tests, the electrocatalyst Au@Pd-3 reattained its electrocatalytic activity just after 3 cycles, which is a crucial factor for determining the efficiency of an electrocatalyst in the commercialization of real fuel cells (Figure [6f\)](#page-6-0). We also tested the electrocatalytic activity of our best catalyst in alkaline conditions after 90 days, which still showed an enhanced activity of 23.70 AmgPd<sup>−</sup>1, <sup>≈</sup>35.37 times higher than the commercial Pd/C (Figure [6g;](#page-6-0) Figure S12, Supporting Information). The Tafel slopes were calculated for all catalysts and it revealed that Au@Pd-3 has the smallest Tafel slope (137.6 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) signifying the fastest reaction kinetics. Due to a decrease in the average number of palladium monolayers, the palladium atoms are positively influenced by the ligand effect of gold atoms.

To understand the impact of the presence of five twinned boundaries, we synthesized single-crystal (SC) core-shell Au@Pd-4SC nanospheres (NSs), which showed an EOR activity of 2.18 A mgPd<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> which is 3.25 times higher than commercial Pd/C but lower than our pentatwinned Au@Pd-7 (Figures S13–S15, Supporting Information). We also tested Au SC NSs and pentatwinned Au NPs for EOR under same conditions and found that pentatwinned Au NPs and SC Au NSs exhibit an electrocatalytic activity of 14.34 and 10.16 mA mgAu−1, respectively, Figure S16 (Supporting Information). This difference in activity can only be attributed to presence of twinned boundaries in pentatwinned morphology of Au, which signifies the role of nonhomogeneous strain induced by these five twinned boundaries in enhancing the EOR activity. Au@Pd-3 nanoparticle has five twinned boundaries, 4.91% tensile strain in Pd shell made up of three monolayers, whereas Au@Pd-4SC nanoparticle has 4.91% tensile strain in its shell made up of four monolayers with no twinned boundaries, Figures S12, S15a (Supporting Information). Both nanoparticles have same amount of strain and nearly same number of Pd monolayers the different factor is number of twinned boundaries, but still the mass activity of Au@Pd-4SC is even lower than Au@Pd-13. Referring to previously reported work of He et al. on Au@PtY nanoparticles for EOR and Liu et al. on twin boundaries regulated metastable Pd, they have shown that the non-uniform strain induced by these twinned boundaries in Pd enhance EOR activity by optimizing the adsorption sites for OH and CO experimentally and via DFT studies. The twinned boundaries exhibit the stronger adsorption sites for OH and weaker adsorption sites for CO due to nonhomogeneous strain, this spatial distribution of distinguished sites is helpful in the removal of poisonous carbonaceous species leading to increase in the anti-CO poisoning ability of electrocatalysts. Au@Pd-4SC NP doesn't exhibit any defect which can slow the removal of poisoning carbonaceous species from its active sites for EOR, leading to its lower electrocatalytic activity than pentatwinned Au@Pd-*x* NPs.[\[29,31\]](#page-10-0) Our synthesized electrocatalysts have shown excellent EOR electrocatalytic mass activity in comparison to several reported data (Figure [6i;](#page-6-0) Table S3, Supporting Information). These electrocatalysts have shown an appreciable electrocatalytic activity due to a high degree of tensile strain present in Pd shell, the presence of five twinned boundaries, the ligand effect of gold, and the core-shell structure, which enhances the utility of palladium.

We performed DFT calculations to understand the role of the tensile strain and the ligand effect coming from Au in altering the position of the d-band centre of Pd surface of these electrocatalysts and how this change in position influences their electrocatalytic activity for EOR. To examine this influence, we investigated two distinct strategies: strain and interface effects. To understand the influence of tensile strain in Au@Pd-*x* core-shell, different amounts of tensile strain, 1.34%, 1.78%, and 4.91%, were applied in the Pd lattice, which is same as the tensile strain of Au@Pd-13, 10 and 7 designated as Pd-1.34%, Pd-1.78% and Pd-4.91%, respectively in DFT studies. To understand the impact of the ligand effect of gold, two layers of gold were introduced at the bottom of 7 and 3 layers of palladium, with 4.91% tensile strain corresponding to Au@Pd-7 and Au@Pd-3, respectively. The structural view and potential profile of gold with 3 and 7 layers of Pd is shown in Figure S18 (Supporting Information).

We calculated the total density of states and d-band center for different surfaces, as depicted in **Figures 7**[a–d](#page-8-0) and S20 (Supporting Information), with the corresponding values listed in the table shown in Figure [7e.](#page-8-0) It is observed that the d-band center of the palladium surface shifts near the Fermi level as the degree of tensile strain is increased, which enhances EOR activity.[\[33\]](#page-10-0) A larger upshift is observed in the position of the d-band center when two layers of gold are introduced under three layers of palladium, which is −2.100 eV. Hence, it can be suggested that the ligand effect of gold has played a prominent role in enhancing the electrocatalytic activity of the Au@Pd-3 electrocatalyst.[\[33,53\]](#page-10-0) To study the impact of the average number of palladium monolayers over the gold surface, we plotted the planar charge density difference along the perpendicular direction of the interface and obtained that the three palladium layers configuration exhibits greater interlayer charge transfer compared to seven layers of palladium (Figure S19, Supporting Information). This indicates a stronger interaction between the surfaces in the Au@Pd-3 core-shell interface than Au@Pd-7.[\[60\]](#page-10-0) Furthermore, we calculated the work function for these interfaces, finding values of 5.08 and 5.12 eV for three and seven palladium layers, respectively, which shows that the Au@Pd-3 surface facilitates electron transfer more efficiently than the Au@Pd-7 surface, which can enhance electrocatalytic performance.[\[60,61\]](#page-10-0)

According to the Sabatier principle, an ideal catalyst should exhibit a moderate interaction with both reactants and products to achieve optimal catalytic activity. Based on this principle, we evaluated the electrocatalytic performance of all configurations based on their interactions with the catalyst surfaces and the adsorption energy. The adsorption energy of an ethanol molecule on the electrocatalyst surface has been calculated using the formula, Ea = E(surface <sup>+</sup> Eth) − Esurface – EEth, where, Ea is the adsorption energy, E(surface+Eth), Esurface, and EEth are the total energy of ethanol adsorbed surface, isolated surface, and isolated ethanol, respectively. We compared the adsorption energy of ethanol and CO2 molecules for all considered surfaces, Figure [6e.](#page-6-0) A comparison of ethanol and CO2 adsorption reveals that an increase in tensile strains (1.34%, 1.78%, 4.91%) increases the adsorption energy linearly. The adsorption energy is also enhanced from when the number of Pd layers is decreased from seven to three, signifying

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**Figure 7.** The total density of states with their corresponding d-band center (with the red solid line) for a) pure Pd, b) Pd-1.34%, c) Pd-4.91% and d) 3 Pd layers with 2 Au layers. The grey dashed line represents the fermi level, which is set to zero. e) Comparison table of adsorption energy of ethanol and CO2 molecules vs. d-band center of all Au@Pd-*x* electrocatalysts and pure Pd. The reaction path for f) pure Pd g) Pd-1.34% h) Pd-4.91% i) 3 Pd layers with 2 Au layers. The blue and red dashed line represents the C1 and C2 path, respectively.

the impact of the ligand effect of gold. Out of all configurations, three Pd layers over two gold layers have shown the highest adsorption energy −0.78 and −0.14 eV in comparison to −1.05 and −0.39 eV of Pd/C for ethanol and CO2, respectively.

For a deeper understanding, we also examined the entire reaction pathway of ethanol oxidation on pure palladium, as well as on surfaces with Pd-1.34% and Pd-4.91% tensile strain, and the 3 layers of Pd over 2 layers of Au configurations based on the comparison of the adsorption energy of their reaction intermediates. The structural representation and reaction profile are shown in Figure 7f–i Figures S21–S24 (Supporting Information). The ethanol oxidation begins with a stepwise dehydrogenation process: CH3CH2OH → CH3CHOH → CH3COH → CH3CO, then the reaction proceeds via two distinct pathways via the C1 or C2 pathway leading to CO2 or CH3COO as the final products, respectively.[\[11\]](#page-9-0) The pure palladium surface follows the C2 pathway, as the formation of CH2CO from CH3CO is an exothermic reaction, while the formation of CH2CO is an endothermic reaction. We found that the Pd-1.34%, Pd-4.91% palladium surface and the three Pd layers with two gold layers interface proceeded along the C1 path, signifying an increase in tensile strain increases the selectivity of C1 path.[\[58\]](#page-10-0) Notably, the reaction steps

<span id="page-9-0"></span>CH2CO → CO → COOH occur spontaneously in these three palladium surfaces. However, the final step, COOH → CO2, is nonspontaneous, requiring an energy of 3.7, 2.8, and 2.6 eV for Pd-1.34%, Pd-4.91%, and the three Pd layers with two Au layers, respectively. This energy difference is decreasing with an increase in tensile strain and reduces further due to the ligand effect of gold. Additionally, the adsorption energy of the CO2 molecule is −0.34, −0.27, and −0.14 eV on palladium surfaces of Pd-1.34%, Pd-4.91%, and the three Pd layers with two Au layers. The progressively weaker adsorption suggests that CO2 desorption is more favourable on the latter electrocatalyst, with the ligand effect of gold, evident in enhancing the catalytic performance. According to DFT studies, the Au@Pd-*x* electrocatalysts predominantly follow the C1 pathway, indicating complete oxidation of ethanol to CO2. Furthermore, the enhanced CO2 desorption implies improved resistance to poisoning by carbonaceous intermediates, which is a crucial step in alkaline medium for EOR.[\[18\]](#page-10-0) Overall, the reaction pathway analysis, d-band center, and adsorption energies of reaction intermediates confirm that three Pd layers on top of two Au layers with 4.91% tensile strain is the most suitable catalytic surface for the ethanol oxidation process, supporting the role of tensile strain and ligand effect of gold for the superior electrocatalytic activity of our best catalyst Au@Pd-3.

## **3. Conclusion**

In this work, we successfully synthesized Au@Pd core-shell electrocatalysts with different numbers of average monolayers grown epitaxially over pentatwinned Au decahedra cores to induce the tensile strain in Pd atoms. We tested our electrocatalysts for EOR in alkaline conditions and found that Au@Pd-3 showed the highest mass and specific activity of 25.67 AmgPd<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and 21.30 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, among all electrocatalysts, which is 38.31 and 11.39 times higher than the commercial Pd/C, respectively. Au@Pd-7, Au@Pd-3, and Au@Pd-2 possess the same degree of tensile strain, but Au@Pd-2 has the largest ECSA, signifying the importance of synthesizing the core-shell nanostructure in increasing the utility of palladium metal. Au@Pd-4SC nanospheres showed lower mass activity than Au@Pd-7 despite having the same degree of tensile strain and lesser number of monolayers, highlighting the role of pentatwinned boundaries in enhancing the electrocatalytic activity of Au@Pd-4SC NPs, hence for every electrocatalyst. To gain deeper insights, we conducted DFT analyses to investigate the influence of tensile strain and ligand effects on the d-band center shift and adsorption energies of ethanol and CO2 on the Pd surface, along with reaction pathways. The combined effects of strain and ligand interactions led to a notable upward shift of the d-band center compared to commercial Pd/C, with adsorption energies increasing linearly as the number of Pd monolayers decreased. Overall, we may conclude that the combined impact of tensile strain, ligand effect of gold, and twinned boundaries can greatly enhance EOR electrocatalytic activity and may open up new strategies to synthesize highly efficient electrocatalysts for DEFCs.

#### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

#### **Acknowledgements**

The authors thank Dr. Prabir Pal for providing XPS facility for XPS measurments. The authors also thank Mr. Arindam Chakrabarti for his technical support in the XRD measurements. The authors would also like to acknowledge the Param Sanganak, IIT Kanpur supercomputing facility under the National Supercomputing Scheme (CDAC-NSM) for computing time. Financial support from the project "Basic and Applied Research in Biophysics and Material Science" (RSI 4002), DAE, Government of India, is gratefully acknowledged.

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available on request from the corresponding author. The data are not publicly available due to privacy or ethical restrictions.

### **Keywords**

core-shell nanostructure, d-band center, electrocatalysts, ethanol oxidation reaction, ligand effect, strain effect, twin boundaries

> Received: June 12, 2025 Revised: August 1, 2025 Published online:

16163028, 0, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202514936 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [08/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [1] P. Bishnoi, K. Mishra, S. S. Siwal, V. K. Gupta, V. K. Thakur, *Adv. Energy Sustainability Res.* **2024**, *5*, 2300266
- [2] A. Q. K. Nguyen, H. Q. Pham, S. T. M. Huynh, T. T. Huynh, *Adv. Sustain. Syst.* **2023**, *7*, 2300205.
- [3] E. Antolini, E. R. Gonzalez, *J. Power Sources* **2010**, *195*, 3431.
- [4] C. Lamy, A. Lima, V. LeRhun, F. Delime, C. Coutanceau, J.-M. Léger, *J. Power Sources* **2002**, *105*, 283.
- [5] H. Wang, H. D. Abruna, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 6330
- [6] Z. Liang, L. Song, S. Deng, Y. Zhu, E. Stavitski, R. R. Adzic, J. Chen, J. Wang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 9629.
- [7] B. Lan, M. Huang, R. L. Wei, C. N. Wang, Q. L. Wang, Y. Y. Yang, *Small* **2020**, *16*, 2004380.
- [8] X. Fan, S. Zerebecki, R. Du, R. Hübner, G. Marzum, G. Jiang, Y. Hu, S. Barcikowki, S. Reichenberger, A. Eychmüller, *Angew. Chem.* **2020**, *132*, 5755.
- [9] S. Zhang, K. Liu, Z. Liu, M. Liu, Z. Zhang, Z. Qiao, L. Ming, C. Gao, *Nano Lett.* **2021**, *21*, 1074.
- [10] W. Zhang, Y. Zhao, J. Li, Y. Miao, P. He, Z. Wu, Y. Zhang, G. R. Xu, L. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2025**, *35*, 2421763.
- [11] X. Fu, C. Wan, Y. Huang, X. Duan, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2106401.
- [12] C. Bianchini, P. K. Shen, *Chem. Rev.* **2009**, *109*, 4183.
- [13] X. B. Yang, Y. Y. Wang, X. L. Tong, N. J. Yang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2102261.
- [14] S. Han, Y. Ma, Q. Yun, A.-L. Wang, Q. Zhu, H. Zhang, C. He, J. Xia, X. Meng, L. Gao, W. Cao, Q. Lu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2208760.
- [15] M. Mavrikakis, B. Hammer, J. K. Nørskov, *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **1998**, *81*, 2819.
- [16] T. Singha, S. Medha Mishra, T. Kumar Chini, B. Satpati, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2022**, *604*, 154491.

*Mater.* **2021**, *11*, 2100812.

16163028, 0, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202514936 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [08/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- <span id="page-10-0"></span>[17] T. Singha, S. Tomar, S. Chakraborty, S. Das, B. Satpati, *Small* **2024**, *20*, 2309736
- [18] T. Singha, S. Tomar, S. Das, B. Satpati, *Small Methods* **2024**, *8*, 2400368.
- [19] T. Bian, H. Zhang, Y. Jiang, C. Jin, J. Wu, H. Yang, D. Yang, *Nano Lett.* **2015**, *15*, 7808.
- [20] X. Wang, M. Vara, M. Luo, H. Huang, A. Ruditskiy, J. Park, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 15036.
- [21] C. Wu, H. Li, H. He, Y. Song, C. Bi, W. Du, H. Xia, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2019**, *11*, 46902.
- [22] Y. Yang, X. Cao, L. Huang, Q. Li, L. Gu, Z. Yan, M. Li, R. Cheng, Z. Lu,
- A. J. Wang, W. Yang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2025**, *35*, 2418588. [23] X. Yang, Q. Wang, S. Qing, Z. Gao, X. Tong, N. Yang, *Adv. Energy*
- [24] F.-R. Fan, D.-Y. Liu, Y.-F. Wu, S. Duan, Z.-X. Xie, Z.-Y. Jiang, Z.-Q. Tian, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2008**, *130*, 6949.
- [25] S. Dey, S. K. Ghosh, B. Satpati, *Langmuir* **2024**, *40*, 15779.
- [26] J. R. Kitchin, J. K. Nørskov, M. A. Barteau, J. Chen, *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **2004**, *93*, 156801.
- [27] S. Jiao, X. Fu, H. Huang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2107651.
- [28] Y. Fang, S. Guo, D. Cao, G. Zhang, Q. Wang, Y. Chen, P. Cui, S. Cheng, W. Zuo, *Nano Res.* **2022**, *15*, 3933.
- [29] C. Liu, Y. Shen, J. Zhang, G. Li, X. Zheng, X. Han, L. Xu, S. Zhu, Y. Chen, Y. Deng, W. Hu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2103505.
- [30] Z. Zhang, Z. Luo, B. Chen, C. Wei, J. Zhao, J. Chen, X. Zhang, Z. Lai, Z. Fan, C. Tan, *Adv. Mater.* **2016**, *28*, 8712.
- [31] Z. He, C. Ma, H. Li, C. Wang, L. Liao, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2025**, *17*, 32544.
- [32] W. Hong, J. Wang, E. Wang, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2014**, *6*, 9481.
- [33] Q. Q. Guan, C. W. Zhu, Y. Lin, E. I. Vovk, X. H. Zhou, Y. Yang, H. C. Yu, L. N. Cao, H. W. Wang, X. H. Zhang, X. Y. Liu, M. K. Zhang, S. Q. Wei, W. X. Li, J. L. Lu, *Nat. Catal.* **2021**, *4*, 840.
- [34] J. Huang, Y. Liu, M. Xu, C. Wan, H. Liu, M. Li, Z. Huang, X. Duan, X. Pan, Y. Huang, *Nano Lett.* **2019**, *19*, 5431.
- [35] F. Gao, Y. Zhang, H. You, Z. Li, B. Zou, Y. Du, *Small* **2021**, *17*, 2101428.
- [36] X. Zhou, Y. Ma, Y. Ge, S. Zhu, Y. Cui, B. Chen, L. Liao, Q. Yun, Z. He, H. Long, L. Li, B. Huang, Q. Luo, L. Zhai, X. Wang, L. Bai, G. Wang, Z. Guan, Y. Chen, C.-S. Lee, J. Wang, C. Ling, M. Shao, Z. Fan, H. Zhang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 547.
- [37] L. Ji, H. Che, N. Qian, J. Li, S. Luo, X. Li, X. Wu, Q. Xu, X. Gong, X. Cui, H. Zhang, D. Yang, *Appl. Catal., B* **2023**, *328*, 122521.
- [38] M. Zhou, J. Liu, C. Ling, Y. Ge, B. Chen, C. Tan, Z. Fan, J. Huang, J. Chen, Z. Liu, Z. Huang, J. Ge, H. Cheng, Y. Chen, L. Dai, P. Yin, X. Zhang, Q. Yun, J. Wang, H. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2106115

- [39] H. Lv, L. Sun, Y. Wang, S. Liu, B. Liu, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2203612.
- [40] T. Wu, Y. Ma, Z. B. Qu, J. C. Fan, Q. X. Li, P. H. Shi, Q. J. Xu, Y. L. Min, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2019**, *11*, 5136.
- [41] L. Chen, L. Lu, H. Zhu, Y. Chen, Y. Huang, Y. Li, L. Wang, *Nat. Commun.* **2017**, *8*, 14136.
- [42] M. Wang, R. Ding, Y. Xiao, H. Wang, L. Wang, C.-M. Chen, Y. Mu, G.-P. Wu, B. Lv, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2020**, *12*, 28903.
- [43] H. Lv, L. Sun, X. Chen, D. Xu, B. Liu, *Green Chem.* **2019**, *21*, 2043.
- [44] M. Yang, M. Pang, J. Chen, F. Gao, H. Li, P. Guo, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2021**, *13*, 9830.
- [45] Y. Zheng, Y. Ma, J. Zeng, X. Zhong, M. Jin, Z.-Y. Li, Y. Xia, *Chem. Asian J.* **2013**, *8*, 792.
- [46] A. Sanchez-Iglesias, N. Winckelmans, T. Altantzis, S. Bals, M. Grzelczak, L. M. Liz-Marzan, J. Am, *Chem. Soc.* **2017**, *139*, 107.
- [47] S. Polsterová, M. Friák, M. Všianská, M. Šob, *Nanomaterials* **2020**, *10*, 767.
- [48] a) D. Chen, J. Li, P. Cui, H. Liu, J. Yang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2016**, *4*, 3813; b) D. Chen, C. Li, H. Liu, F. Ye, J. Yang, *Sci. Rep.* **2015**, *5*, 11949; c) S. Kumar, S. Zou, *Langmuir* **2007**, *23*, 7365.
- [49] M. Mavrikakis, B. Hammer, J. K. Nørskov, *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **1998**, *81*, 2819.
- [50] P. S. Bagus, A. Wieckowski, H. Freund, *Comput. Theor. Chem.* **2012**, *987*, 22.
- [51] B. Richter, H. Kuhlenbeck, H.-J. Freund, P. S. Bagus, *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **2004**, *93*, 026805.
- [52] X. Zhang, Z. Sun, R. Jin, C. Zhu, C. Zhao, Y. Lin, Q. Guan, L. Cao, H. Wang, S. Li, H. Yu, X. Liu, L. Wang, S. Wei, W.-X. Li, J. Lu, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 530.
- [53] H. C. Tsai, Y. C. Hsieh, T. H. Yu, Y. J. Lee, Y. H. Wu, B. V. Merinov, P. W. Wu, S. Y. Chen, R. R. Adzic, W. A. Goddard, *ACS Catal.* **2015**, *5*, 1568.
- [54] J. Zhang, J. Ye, Q. Fan, Y. Jiang, Y. Zhu, H. Li, Z. Cao, Q. Kuang, J. Cheng, J. Zheng, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 11232.
- [55] a) Q. Zeng, D. Liu, H. Liu, L. Xu, P. Cui, D. Chen, J. Wang, J. Yang, *Cell Rep. Phys. Sci.* **2022**, *3*, 101105; b) D. Liu, Q. Zeng, H. Liu, C. Hu, D. Chen, L. Xu, J. Yang, *Cell Rep. Phys. Sci.* **2021**, *2*, 100357.
- [56] Y. Zhang, J.-G. Wang, X. Yu, D. R. Baer, Y. Zhao, L. Mao, F. Wang, Z. Zhu, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2019**, *4*, 215.
- [57] P. Ferrin, M. Mavrikakis, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2009**, *131*, 14381.
- [58] B.-W. Zhang, W.-H. Lai, T. Sheng, X.-M. Qu, Y.-X. Wang, L. Ren, L. Zhang, Y. Du, Y.-X. Jiang, S.-G. Sun, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 5214.
- [59] L. Tao, K. Wang, F. Lv, H. Mi, F. Lin, H. Luo, H. Guo, Q. Zhang, L. Gu, M. Luo, S. Guo, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 6893.
- [60] I. V. Chepkasov, I. S. Zamulin, V. S. Baidyshev, A. G. Kvashnin, *Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.* **2023**, *25*, 33031.
- [61] I. V. Chepkasov, V. S. Baidyshev, A. A. Golubnichiy, I. S. Zamulin, A. G. Kvashnin, S. M. Kozlov, *Aggregate* **2022**, *3*, 273.