---
source: Velázquez‐Hernández 等 - 2019 - Electrocatalytic Promotion of Pt Nanoparticles by Incorporation of Ni(OH)2 for Glycerol E.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 52.826s
generated: 2026-01-09T05:12:11.888438Z
---

# **CHEMNANOMAT**

## **CHEMISTRY OF NANOMATERIALS FOR ENERGY, BIOLOGY AND MORE**

**www.chemnanomat.org**

# **Accepted Article**

**Title:** Electrocatalytic promotion of Pt nanoparticles by incorporation of Ni(OH)2 for glycerol electro-oxidation: analysis of activity and reaction pathway

**Authors:** Isaac Velázquez Hernández, Mercedes T. Oropeza-Guzmán, Minerva Guerra Balcázar, Lorena Álvarez-Contreras, and Noé Arjona

This manuscript has been accepted after peer review and appears as an Accepted Article online prior to editing, proofing, and formal publication of the final Version of Record (VoR). This work is currently citable by using the Digital Object Identifier (DOI) given below. The VoR will be published online in Early View as soon as possible and may be different to this Accepted Article as a result of editing. Readers should obtain the VoR from the journal website shown below when it is published to ensure accuracy of information. The authors are responsible for the content of this Accepted Article.

**To be cited as:** *ChemNanoMat* 10.1002/cnma.201800317

**Link to VoR:** http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/cnma.201800317

A Journal of

A sister journal of **Chemistry – An Asian Journal** and **Asian Journal of Organic Chemistry**

10.1002/cnma.201800317 ChemNanoMat

**FULL PAPER**

# **Electrocatalytic promotion of Pt nanoparticles by incorporation of Ni(OH)<sup>2</sup> for glycerol electro-oxidation: analysis of activity and reaction pathway**

Isaac Velázquez-Hernández, [a] Mercedes T. Oropeza-Guzmán,[b] Minerva Guerra-Balcázar,[c] Lorena Álvarez-Contreras,[d] and Noé Arjona\* [a]

**Abstract:** In this work, the effect of Pt-Ni(OH)<sup>2</sup> nanoparticles on the activity and reaction pathway of glycerol oxidation was studied. For this purpose, small Pt (4±0.2 nm) and Pt-Ni(OH)<sup>2</sup> nanoparticles (4.7±0.4 nm) supported on Vulcan carbon were synthesized. Ni(OH)<sup>2</sup> were found in the vicinity of Pt modifying the lattice parameter, interplanar distance and binding energy of Pt. Electrochemical evaluation indicated that, Pt-Ni(OH)2/C had better electrocatalytic activity than Pt/C offering a higher current density (almost 45 mA mg-1 ), and a lower onset (-0.3 V) and oxidation peak potentials (0.04 V). The improved activity was associated to the OH groups found in the vicinity of Pt active sites, facilitating the charge transfer due to a bifunctional mechanism. The *in-situ* evaluation confirmed that, the incorporating Ni(OH)<sup>2</sup> improved a higher electron transfer due to short-chain byproducts such as glycolate, mesoxalate and formate were found at the oxidation peak potential.

## **Introduction**

Glycerol is a widely used chemical compound and is considered a low-cost raw material because of high production from several sources, including biodiesel and hydrolytic splitting of vegetable oils (triglycerides hydrolysis or methanolysis process).[1] The glycerol electro-oxidation reaction involves the transfer of 14 electrons through a broad pathway, thus generating several byproducts. Many of these byproducts are considered valuable fine chemicals, [2] and their generation strongly depends on the pH of the electrolyte, the applied potential and especially the nature of the catalyst.[3] A few studies have presented *in situ* analyses of glycerol electro-oxidation in alkaline media through infrared spectroscopy by focusing on the effect of the noble metal and metal mixtures on the reaction pathway.[4] Moreover, *in situ* infrared spectroscopy and Raman spectroscopy are the most frequently used because they are versatile and easy to perform and the reaction can be followed in real time.

The majority of the reported *in situ* spectroscopic studies apply the cell designs presented in Scheme 1.[5] For infrared spectroscopy, the most frequently used approach is illustrated in Scheme 1a. In such cell configuration, the working electrode is fit close to the IR window, forming a highly thin layer (1-10 µm) of electrolyte between the working electrode and the IR window, thus decreasing the dissolvent absorption. IR windows with prismatic or semispherical shapes made from CaF2, ZnSe, BaF<sup>2</sup> and Si are conveniently used to apply high angles of incidence.[5a]

**Scheme 1.** a-c) Reported cell configurations for *in situ* analysis. The proposed

cell configuration is illustrated in (d).

[a] M. Sc. I. Velázquez Hernández, Dr. N. Arjona. Centro de Investigación y Desarrollo Tecnológico en Electroquímica S.C., Querétaro, C. P. 76703, México. E-mail[: noe.arjona@yahoo.com.mx](mailto:noe.arjona@yahoo.com.mx) [& wvelazquez@cideteq.mx](mailto:wvelazquez@cideteq.mx)

[b] Dr. M. T. Oropeza-Guzmán. Tecnológico Nacional de México, Instituto Tecnológico de Tijuana Apdo. Postal 1166, Tijuana, Baja California, México, C.P. 22000

[c] Dr. M. Guerra-Balcázar, División de Investigación y Posgrado, Facultad de Ingeniería Universidad Autónoma de Querétaro Querétaro, México, C.P. 76010

[d] Dr. L. Álvarez-Contreras Centro de Investigación en Materiales Avanzados S. C., Miguel de Cervantes 120, Complejo Industrial Chihuahua, Chihuahua, México, C.P. 31136.

Supplementary information is available:

Scheme 1b illustrates a spectroelectrochemical cell used for the *in situ* infrared analysis.[5e] In this cell, a beam is irradiated through a quartz window to the photoelectrode positioned at 90°. The cell schematized on Scheme 1c shows the electrochemical configuration used to perform Raman spectroscopy. The irradiated beam has a known wavelength, usually 638 or 785 nm.[5b] This cell has been used to analyze methanol and formic

acid electro-oxidations.[5c, 5d] We found that this design suffers from certain inconveniences, such as short circuits due to contact between the electrode electrical connection and water after prolonged contact times and problems in adjusting the position between the microscope and the electrode surface thereby, we propose a novel design illustrated in Scheme 1d.

Single noble metals (Au, Pd or Pt) are frequently used as catalysts for alcohols. [6] Pt is considered the most active catalyst for fuel cell applications, whereas Pt (111) is the most active for the glycerol electro-oxidation reaction.[7] In literature is found that glycerol electro-oxidation on Pt surfaces produces tartronic acid, glycolic acid, glyoxylic acid, formic acid and carbon dioxide regardless of the electrolyte pH.[4a] At the same time, Au surfaces generate tartronic acid, formic acid and carbon dioxide in acidic media and dihydroxyacetone, tartronic acid, mesoxalic acid, glyoxylic acid and CO2. [4b] Pd surfaces produce glyceraldehyde, glyceric acid, mesoxalic acid, and tartronic acid. Furthermore, the bimetallic mixture of Pd with Bi (PdBi), directs the reaction towards glyceraldehyde and dihydroxyacetone.[4c] The electro-oxidation of glycerol has been investigated by combining voltammetry with HPLC online. In that work, Pt and Au surfaces for glycerol oxidation was analyzed in alkaline media observing the production of glyceric acid, glycolic acid, and formic acid. In addition, oxalic acid and tartronic acid were formed only on the Pt surface.[4f] PdNi/C and PdAg/C surfaces produce glyceraldehyde, glyceric acid, tartronic acid, glycolic acid, oxalic acid and formic acid according with HPLC and FTIRS studies.[4g] Besides, it is found that transitional metals in their oxide or hydroxide forms participate actively in the glycerol electro-oxidation reaction. Among metal oxides, NiO/Ni(OH)<sup>2</sup> have been frequently used as co-catalysts in Pt nanoparticles for methanol and ethanol electro-oxidations.[8] In these cases, the activity has been improved because oxides and hydroxides promote the water dissociation at low overpotential producing (OHads) species on the oxide surface. These species promote the oxidation of CO on neighboring Pt actives sites at low potentials and hence, facilitating the active sites regeneration for further oxidation of freshly chemisorbed fuel species.

In this work, we used Ni(OH)<sup>2</sup> as a co-catalyst in Pt-Ni(OH)<sup>2</sup> nanoparticles synthesized by an aqueous chemical reduction method. This material together with Pt nanoparticles were used as electrocatalysts for the glycerol electro-oxidation reaction in alkaline media. Moreover, we succeed in analyzing the electrocatalytic properties of Pt-Ni(OH)<sup>2</sup> and Pt nanoparticles by *in situ* surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy coupled with a homemade electrochemical cell. This cell offers advantages over other reported spectroscopic cells, due to its novel design allows flexibility in modulating the distance between the microscope and the electrode surface, reproducibility and, easiness for evaluating different nanomaterials by changing only the working electrode.

# **Results and Discussion**

*Physicochemical evaluation*

X-ray diffractograms of Pt-Ni(OH)2/C and Pt/C are shown in Fig. 1. Pt/C displayed the (111), (200), (220), (311) and (222) characteristic planes of the typical face-centered cubic structure of platinum zero-valent (JCPDS card no. 04-0802).[9] Peaks were found at 39.86, 46.26, 67.57, 81.48 and 85.75 2θ degrees. Pt-Ni(OH)2/C exhibited the characteristic planes of a Pt<sup>0</sup> phase and, the (100) and (110) planes, indexed to Ni(OH)<sup>2</sup> (JCPDS card no.14-0117).[10] Crystallite sizes were obtained using Scherrer's equation applied to the (111), (200) and (220) planes, resulting in average sizes of 4.18 and 4.40 nm for Pt/C and Pt-Ni(OH)2/C, respectively. Moreover, lattice constants were determined through Bragg's law resulting in 3.9349 Å and 3.9219 Å for Pt/C and Pt-Ni(OH)2/C, respectively. The presence of Ni(OH)<sup>2</sup> as co-catalyst in Pt-Ni(OH)<sup>2</sup> nanoparticles decreased slightly the Pt-Pt interatomic distances from 2.7824 Å (Pt/C) to 2.7732 Å, suggesting that Ni(OH)<sup>2</sup> species- could be in the close vicinity of Pt atoms. The physicochemical properties obtained by XRD for both nanocatalysts are summarized in Table 1.

**Figure 1.** X-ray diffractograms of Pt-Ni(OH)2/C and Pt/C nanocatalysts.

Thermogravimetric analyses were performed to determine the proportion between metallic material and Vulcan carbon used as the support. The TGA weight loss curves are illustrated in Fig. 2. Pt/C presented first, the weight loss associated to evaporation of residual water at 100°C. Later, at 252°C a second fall is observed and is attributed to decomposition of residual ascorbic acid.[11] The last -and the most- abrupt fall is observed after 400°C and is associated to degradation of Vulcan carbon utilized

as support. On the other hand, the weight loss in Pt-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> showed a different behavior than Pt/C, presenting four main processes. The first process (between 100-120°C) is related to water evaporation and, the second could be attributed to removal of strongly-adsorbed water molecules on Pt-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> sites (below to 200°C). From 250 to 400°C, two weight losses appeared and can be related to decomposition of remnants from the synthesis, mainly to ascorbic acid and PVP [12]; while at a higher temperature occurs the carbon Vulcan decomposition. The presence of ascorbic acid and PVP (around 23%) suggests that Pt-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> strongly adsorb these species in comparison with Pt/C and thus, the stablished washing procedure need improvement. However, as these species can block Pt-Ni(OH)2 active sites, an electrochemical cleaning (which does not performed compromise morphology) is before electrochemical experiments. Furthermore, the weight loss curves were used to determine the residual metallic masses of Pt and Pt-Ni(OH)2. In the case of Pt, the curves showed a Pt mass content of 15.66 % while Pt-Ni(OH)2 had an 18.35%.

Figure 2. Thermogravimetric analysis for Pt and Pt-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> supported on Vulcan carbon.

High-resolution TEM micrographs of Pt/C at high and low magnifications are shown in Figs. 3a and 3b, respectively. The particle distribution histogram of Pt/C and the calculated FFT image are illustrated in Figs. 3c and 3d, respectively. The HR-TEM micrograph of Pt/C (Fig. 3a) clearly shows the lattice fringes of Pt, presenting an inter-planar distance of 2.20 Å, which is characteristic of a Pt (111) lattice plane with a facecentered cubic phase (JCPDS card no. 88-2343). The presence of this lattice plane was confirmed through the fast Fourier transform (FFT) pattern illustrated in Fig. 3d. For particle size, Fig. 3a shows the presence of slightly agglomerated small nanoparticles, while Fig. 3b shows good distribution of particles over the Vulcan carbon support. Additionally, low agglomeration is confirmed at low magnifications (Fig. 3b). Several micrographs were used for determining particle size, finding an average particle size of 4±0.2 nm (Fig. 3c). The HR-TEM micrograph of Pt-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/C (Fig. 4a) revealed a reduction in the lattice fringes of Pt from 2.20 Å to 2.185 Å. This decrease is associated to a possible interaction between Ni and Pt atoms. Additionally, the resulting inter-planar distance is characteristic of a Pt (111) lattice plane with an *fcc* phase, as corroborated by the FFT pattern (Fig. 4d).

**Figure 3.** a & b) HR-TEM micrographs for Pt/C at different magnifications. c) Histogram of particle distribution and d) FFT image with the calculated d*hkl*.

HR-TEM micrographs (Fig. 4a and 4b) showed the presence of non-agglomerated small Pt-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> nanoparticles. An average particle size of 4.7±0.4 nm was obtained from counting more than 100 single nanoparticles (Fig. 4c). Moreover, particle sizes are in concordance with crystallite sizes calculated through X-ray diffraction patterns.

XRF analysis indicated that Pt-Ni(OH)2/C was composed of 65.27% Pt and 34.72% Ni in terms of mass content and, these percentages correspond to the value obtained for the whole powder (Table 1). In contrast, EDX analysis was performed on a set of single particles (Fig. 5a) and showed that Pt-Ni(OH)2/C is formed by Pt-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> nanoparticles and single Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> nanoparticles. The average mass percentages were calculated with and without consideration of single Ni(OH)2 nanoparticles. Considering single Ni(OH)2 nanoparticles, the resulting EDX mass percentages were 65.59% Pt and 34.41% Ni(OH)2; these values are similar to the obtained by XRF. Furthermore, the average mass percentages by EDX without considering Ni(OH)2 were 67% Pt and 33% Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>. The deviation between inclusion and exclusion of Ni(OH)2 is only 1%, indicating that exists a low presence of single Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> nanoparticles in the Pt-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> material. Line-scan EDX analysis (Fig. 5b) was performed on nanoparticles found in a distance of 80 nm over the sample. Through this analysis, the presence of few single Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> nanoparticles was confirmed as well as the close proximity between Pt and  $Ni(OH)_2$  particles. In addition, bromide was observed, indicating the presence of impurities in the catalyst, and this impurity likely originates from the synthesis method.

**Figure 4.** a) & b) HR-TEM micrographs for Pt-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/C at different magnifications. c) Histogram of particle distribution and d) FTT image with the calculated d*hkl*.

Deconvolved XPS spectra of Pt/C and Pt-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/C are shown in Figure 6a and 6b to 6d, respectively. Pt/C (Fig. 6a) shows doublet peaks from the emission of f-orbitals at 70.3 and 75.3 eV related to Pt  $4f_{7/2}$  and  $4f_{5/2}$ , respectively. The position of these peaks indicates that the formed phase corresponds to zerovalent Pt (Pt<sup>0</sup>). Pt contained in the Pt-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/C (Fig. 6b) catalyst showed also the doublet peaks at 71.8 and 74.9 eV for Pt 4f<sub>7/2</sub> and Pt 4f<sub>5/2</sub> respectively, indicating that Pt is presented also as Pt<sup>0</sup>. Ni (Fig. 6c) shows the typical doublet peaks of 2p-orbitals, indexing the 2p<sub>3/2</sub> (855-870 eV) and 2p<sub>1/2</sub> doublets (870-890 eV) at binding energies between 890 and 855 eV, showing that Ni is in form of Ni2+ species. The most intense peak found at 856 eV is ascribed to Ni(OH)2. [8c, 10] Additionally, the O 1s orbital shows a single peak located at 531 eV (Fig. 6d), which is consistent with the shoulder peak of O 1s in Ni(OH)2.[10] Thus, the presence of Ni<sup>2+</sup> species in form of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> observed by XRD is now corroborated by XPS. Moreover, exists also a negative shift between the Pt 4f<sub>5/2</sub> orbitals of Pt-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/C and the Pt/C. Shifts in binding energies occur due to changes in the electronic structure and density around Pt atoms and, they could be related to an electron transfer from Ni to Pt atoms because their electronegativities (1.91 versus 2.28 of Pt). In addition, these shifts are frequently associated to changes in the *d*-band center, work function and Fermi energy.[13]

Figure 5. Elemental analysis of Pt-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/C using a) EDX and b) line-scan

Figure 6. Deconvolved XPS spectra of a) Pt 4f of Pt/C and, b) Pt 4f, c) Ni 2p and d) O 1s of Pt-Ni(OH) $_{\rm Z}$ /C.

#### Electrochemical evaluation

Changes in the electronic properties of Pt by incorporating Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> inspired the evaluation of the effect of these electronic changes on the electrocatalytic activity towards glycerol electro-oxidation, in terms of both, activity and reaction pathway. Thereby, cyclic voltammograms performed in alkaline media for Pt/C and Pt-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/C and electrocatalytic evaluation at 0.1, 0.5,

FULL PAPER WILEY-VCH

1 and 1.5 M glycerol are presented in Fig. 7. Pt/C (Fig. 7a) presented the typical electrochemical profile of Pt-based materials, displaying the hydrogen adsorption/desorption region, the capacitive region and the region of formation of Pt oxides and their respective reduction. Formation of Pt oxides is found between 0 and 0.6 V vs. NHE, while the reduction of Pt oxides showed a backward peak potential at -0.22 V.

**Table 1.** Summary of crystallite sizes, lattice parameters, nanoparticle sizes, and mass percentages

| Material                      | Crystallite<br>size / nm | Lattice<br>parameter / Å | Nanoparticle<br>size / nm | Mass<br>percentage <sup>[a]</sup><br>/ % |
|-------------------------------|--------------------------|--------------------------|---------------------------|------------------------------------------|
| Pt/C                          | 4.48                     | 3.9349                   | 4±0.2                     | 100                                      |
| Pt-<br>Ni(OH) <sub>2</sub> /C | 4.40                     | 3.9219                   | 4.7±0.4                   | 65:35<br>(Pt:Ni(OH) <sub>2</sub> )       |

[a] Determined by XRF and EDX.

**Figure 7.** Cyclic voltammograms of a) Pt/C and b) Pt-Ni(OH) $_2$ /C in alkaline media (scan rate: 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup>). Electrocatalytic evaluation of c) Pt/C and d) Pt-Ni(OH) $_2$ /C for glycerol oxidation as a function of concentration (scan rate: 20 mV s<sup>-1</sup>).

Pt-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/C (Fig. 7b) exhibited an intense oxidation peak potential at 0.69 V and, a reduction peak potential associated to this process at 0.42 V. These processes can be related to Ni<sup>2+</sup>/Ni<sup>3+</sup> redox couple <sup>[14]</sup>; whereas, the reduction peak observed at -0.3 V can be associated to reduction of Pt oxides. This peak is slightly shifted towards a more negative potential compared with Pt/C and, this phenomenon can be attributed to changes in the electronic characteristics of Pt due to its proximity to Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, which could modify the strength of Pt-O bonds. Additionally, a similar effect has been previously reported for Pd-Ni <sup>[15]</sup> and Pt-Ni electrocatalysts. <sup>[8d]</sup>

The electrocatalytic activity was evaluated in a typical threeelectrode electrochemical cell and, in the fabricated electrochemical cell for SERS experiments. The electrochemical evaluation in the typical cell are named as ex situ experiments and are presented in Fig. 7c and 7d for Pt/C and Pt-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/C, respectively. Both materials showed a maximum current density at 0.5 M glycerol, where the further increasing of glycerol concentration did not result in an improvement of the current density. Pt/C exhibited a maximum current density of 36.6 mA mg-1Pt, while Pt-Ni(OH)2/C presented a maximum current density of 44.1 mA mg-1Pt. Moreover, Pt-Ni(OH)2 exhibited shifts in the onset and the oxidation peak potentials, being 44 and 90 mV more negative than the values found for Pt/C, respectively. The decrease of these potentials and, the increase of the current density suggests that Pt-Ni(OH)2/C requires less energy to conduct the glycerol oxidation. In literature is found that metallic oxides/hydroxides and non-precious metals such as Ni(OH)2, promote a better route to perform the fuel oxidation, because they provide O-species for the oxidation of byproducts and intermediates achieving a more complete reaction [8d], this process is known as bifunctional mechanism. Ni(OH)2 acts as a catalyst mediator [16], facilitating the dissociative adsorption of water to OH groups, increasing the amount of these species close to Pt active sites and thus, facilitating the charge transfer and removal of poisoning CO. [17] Consequently, enhancement in charge transfer and oxidation of intermediates could explain the improvement of the onset/oxidation potential and the current density presented by Pt-Ni(OH)2/C in comparison with Pt/C. In addition, the incorporation of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> boosted the stability of Pt (Fig. S1); Pt-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/C maintained 95% of its initial current, while Pt/C lost 50% of its initial current after 500 cycles.

#### SERS evaluation

The proximity of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> to Pt modified the electronic structure of Pt at a Fermi level, which can weaken the intermediates adsorption. This phenomenon combined with the presence of OH groups in the vicinity of Pt active sites, should conduct the reaction until different intermediates than those formed employing Pt/C. H. Hitmi et. al, have demonstrated the preponderant role of OH/H2O species on the breakage and formation of different intermediates on the ethanol electrooxidation. [18] Therefore, an in situ evaluation through SERS coupled to an electrochemical cell was made for evaluating the effect of these electronic changes on the glycerol reaction in alkaline medium. The signals obtained by normal Raman scattering are generally weak, while SERS is one of the most sensitive techniques that allows the structural detection of low concentration analytes through two effects. The first is the longrange electromagnetic effect, and the second is the short-range chemical effect and/or load transfer in the metal-adsorbate interface. Thus, SERS is a technique in which the Raman intensity is increased by modifying one of these effects. The first effect is modified using Au or Ag, because the excitation of their localized surface plasmons, while the second effect occurs when the species in solution form a chemical bond with the surface. It is known that alcohol fuels, such as methanol, ethanol and

glycerol suffer a dissociative adsorption when they are in contact with electrocatalysts like Pt, forming a chemical bond between the adsorbed specie and the Pt catalyst. [18] Therefore, they can be used as SERS substrates. In a similar case, Pt/C and Pt-Ni(OH) $_2$ /C can be used as SERS substrates because a chemical bond is formed when glycerol is adsorbed by dissociation on the catalyst surface.

Prior to these experiments, Raman spectra of selected byproducts and intermediates are presented in Fig. 8. During the *in-situ* analysis, the glycerol C–H bands (found after 2700 to 3000 cm<sup>-1</sup>) predominated over the byproduct bands, impeding their detection. For this reason, the spectra were presented at wavelengths from 300 to 1800 cm<sup>-1</sup>.

**Figure 8.** Raman spectra of glycerol and selected typical byproducts of glycerol electro-oxidation. Laser wavelength: 638 nm.

In situ analyses of the electrocatalytic activity in 1.5 M glycerol using a scan rate of 1 mV s<sup>-1</sup> are shown in Figs. 9 and 10 for Pt/C and Pt-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/C, respectively. These spectra are presented at two Raman shifts sections: from 330 to 810 cm<sup>-1</sup>, and from 1150 to 1800 cm<sup>-1</sup>. These section were selected for clarity purposes. Moreover, these spectra show the effect of the applied potential and electrochemical cycling on the chemical changes that occurred during the glycerol electro-oxidation. These spectra were statistically treated and, the band detection, baselines and all bands were filtered/smoothed using the Savitzky-Golay method. [19] Additionally, they were recorded every 60 mV, but for simplicity, only four potentials per cycle were selected from the in situ voltammogram. The first potential (-0.47 V) was selected because it is found in the non-Faradic region, in which glycerol adsorption occurs. The second potential (0.03 V) corresponds to the oxidation peak potential. At the same time, the formation of metal oxides occurs at the third potential (0.43 V). Certain authors have suggested that at this potential, the metal oxides promote the concentration of OH- and OH<sub>ads</sub> required for the processes of desorption and re-oxidation of byproducts, thus enabling a cleaner oxidation reaction. <sup>[20]</sup> The fourth potential (-0.03 V) corresponds to the backward oxidation peak, where desorption of carbonaceous species, re-oxidation of freshly adsorbed glycerol and formation of  ${\rm CO_3}^{2^-}$  occur. This analogy for selection of potentials to follow the glycerol reaction was extrapolated for Pt-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/C.

**Figure 9.** a) SERS spectra on Pt/C for cycle 1 as a function of potential, and b) SERS spectra of the adsorbed byproducts formed through the electrochemical cycling.

The control spectrum of dissolved glycerol on the Pt/C surface is presented in Fig. 9a, where its chemical bands are in concordance with bands of pure glycerol presented in Fig. 8. In addition, carbon bands of the support are found in the range 1100-1600 cm<sup>-1</sup>, indicating that SERS analysis is performed on the electrode surface. In literature, for ethanol and methanol electro-oxidations, the CO and the C1 (fuel-metal bond) adsorption bands on metallic electrocatalysts are usually detected in the range 300-500 cm<sup>-1</sup>. [21] For glycerol, during the in situ cyclic voltammetry, after applying the potential in which the glycerol chemisorption can occur (-0.51 V), faint changes are observed in the range 400-460 cm<sup>-1</sup> associated to aliphatic changes. The glycerol peak found at 431 cm<sup>-1</sup> in the control spectrum is diminished after the chemisorption, appearing a new peak at 443 cm<sup>-1</sup>. The authors suggest that, this peak can be indexed to the C<sub>1</sub>-M bond of the glycerol chemisorption on Pt/C. All of the other aliphatic vibrations of the C-C bands of adsorbed glycerol appeared at 498 and 685 cm<sup>-1</sup>, without any modification after glycerol adsorption. Bands at 835, 863 and 935 cm-1 correspond to the vibrations of CH2 bonds and, the asymmetric stretching of C-OH bands of glycerol C1 and C3 carbons are observed at 1073 and 1357 cm<sup>-1</sup>. [5b, 19b] This last band could be FULL PAPER WILEY-VCH

associated to the glycerol  $C_1$  band linked to the electrocatalyst because this band suffer changes during the potential sweep as discussed later. These bands and the other bands found during the SERS analysis are summarized in Table 2.

New bands associated with formation of byproducts are observed at the oxidation peak potential (-0.03 V). At this potential, the presence of glyceraldehyde C<sub>1</sub> band is confirmed at 453 cm<sup>-1</sup>. In addition, glycerol is oxidized to formate, as shown by observation of the formate C-H band at 1437 cm-1. [22] The carbonyl group band associated with several byproducts is observed at 1758 cm<sup>-1</sup>. Moreover, the presence of carbonates and carbon monoxide are not easily observed at this potential. Thus, at the oxidation peak potential, Pt/C tends to form mainly glyceraldehyde, involving predominantly the transfer of 2 electrons. The increase of the oxidation potential from -0.03 to 0.43 V resulted in the generation of a greater amount of short chain byproducts. The aliphatic changes of the C-C bonds at 599 cm<sup>-1</sup> and the presence of a band at 782 cm<sup>-1</sup> suggest the formation of glyoxylate. In addition, the band found at 1180 cm<sup>-1</sup> suggests further oxidation of glycerol to glyceraldehyde. The formation of CO<sub>3</sub><sup>2-</sup> is observed at 1289 cm<sup>-1</sup>, and because of its high intensity over the other compounds, it is considered the main product of the glycerol oxidation on Pt/C at higher potentials than the oxidation peak potential. Thus, as expected, the increase of the oxidation potential resulted in a more complete oxidation, suggesting that Pt/C follows a glyoxylate pathway, and this is further confirmed by chronoamperometry tests. Finally, at the backward oxidation peak potential, a decrease of in the intensity of the byproducts bands is observed. However, certain bands associated with glyoxylate and formate are still observed. Furthermore, CO<sub>3</sub><sup>2-</sup> bands are observed at 1289 and 1366 cm<sup>-1</sup>, and these bands predominated over the other byproduct bands.

SERS analysis of glycerol oxidation on Pt/C was performed during 4 cycles. In Fig. 9a the discussion was focused on the effect of the applied potential in cycle 1. Moreover, in Fig. 9b is shown the effect of electrochemical cycling on the glycerol oxidation since an adsorption point of view. Thus, the SERS spectra were taken at the adsorption potential (-0.51 V). The spectrum for cycle 2 shows bands attributed to glyceraldehyde (453 and 575 cm<sup>-1</sup>) and glyoxylate (623 and 772 cm<sup>-1</sup>). In addition, bands for formate (1438 cm<sup>-1</sup>) and the carbon support (1300 and 1613 cm<sup>-1</sup>) are also observed. Cycle 3 shows the same bands as in cycle 2, but in cycle 4, bands of CO<sub>3</sub><sup>2-</sup> are predominant, suggesting the subsequent oxidation of byproducts to CO and CO<sub>3</sub><sup>2-</sup>. This behavior is typical of Pt/C, because CO is strongly adsorbed on the surface, causing deactivation of active sites. This phenomenon is known in literature as CO poisoning effect, [8c, 23] and is the main cause of activity loss in Pt/C electrocatalysts.

In the case of glycerol oxidation on Pt-Ni(OH) $_2$ /C electrode, the control spectrum (Fig. 10a) shows aliphatic vibration of C–C bonds (429, 496, 561 and 685 cm $^{-1}$ ), CH $_2$  vibration (862, 931 and 987 cm $^{-1}$ ), C–OH asymmetric stretching of C $_1$  and C $_2$  (1066 cm $^{-1}$ ), C–OH stretching of C $_2$  (1120 cm $^{-1}$ ) and vibration of

glycerol C–H bonds (1277, 1332 and 1363 cm $^{-1}$ ). Additionally, an OH band from water or Ni(OH) $_2$  was detected at 1646 cm $^{-1}$ . The SERS spectrum collected at the adsorption potential (-0.46 V) shows the same bands observed in the control spectrum, including the OH band found at 1646 cm $^{-1}$ . The presence of this band could explain the improvement of the electrocatalytic activity of Pt-Ni(OH) $_2$ /C, because glycerol oxidation could occur through the bifunctional mechanism. It is stablished that, the presence of OH groups found in the vicinity of Pt active sites facilitate the charge transfer and removal of CO. [23]

Figure 10. a) SERS spectra on Pt-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/C for cycle 1 as a function of potential, and b) SERS spectra of the adsorbed byproducts formed through the electrochemical cycling.

At the oxidation peak potential (-0.11 V), bands associated with glyoxylate (775 cm<sup>-1</sup>), glyceraldehyde (1354 cm<sup>-1</sup>), mesoxalate (1548 and 1580 cm<sup>-1</sup>) and formate (1406 cm<sup>-1</sup>) were identified. No bands linked to CO nor CO<sub>3</sub><sup>2-</sup> were determined; however, glycolate is found as the main byproduct (involving the transfer of 6 e<sup>-</sup>). Thereby, the formation of these by-products suggest that, the electron transfer from 2 (because the formation of glyceraldehyde) to 10 electrons (formation of mesoxalates) [4d] could occurs during the glycerol oxidation at the oxidation peak potential using Pt-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/C as electrocatalyst.

At more positive potentials (0.44 V), the formation of glyceraldehyde, mesoxalate and formate is still observed,  $^{[23,24a]}$  indicating that glycerol electro-oxidation follows a tartronate pathway on Pt-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/C electrocatalyst. Moreover, bands linked to CO nor CO<sub>3</sub><sup>2-</sup> are not observed neither at this potential, indicating that incorporation of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> does not promote the formation of CO. The backward oxidation peak (0.16 V) still shows the presence of these byproducts and, a small formation

of CO<sub>3</sub><sup>2-</sup> could be occurring due to changes in bands located between 1286-1375 cm<sup>-1</sup>, range in which carbonates can be detected. <sup>[24]</sup> In the analysis of adsorbed species during cycling (Fig. 10b), cycle 1 shows the glycerol characteristic bands, which are in agreement with the control spectrum. Cycle 2, shows mainly the glycerol bands; however, glyceraldehyde (603 cm<sup>-1</sup>) and glyoxylic acid (591 cm<sup>-1</sup>) can be detected. In cycle 3, glycerol is still the main specie found in the catalytic surface but, mesoxalate (1543 and 1591 cm<sup>-1</sup>) is also detected. In the last cycle, greater amounts of mesoxalate and glycolate were found compared to cycle 3. Thus, it is concluded that, Pt-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/C has capability to desorb byproducts and, due to the incorporation of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, CO is not formed or, it is formed at lower concentrations than the SERS configuration can detect.

a) Pt/C . F= 0.01 V ntensity / a.u. 1200 1350 1500 Raman Shift / cm<sup>-1</sup> Raman Shift / cm<sup>-1</sup> b) Pt-Ni(OH),/C , E= -0.09 \ Pt-Ni(OH)2/C , E= -0.091 \ ntensity / a.u. 1200 1350 1500 1650 Raman Shift /cm<sup>-1</sup> Raman Shift / cm<sup>-1</sup>

**Figure 11.** SERS analyses of glycerol electro-oxidation reaction by chronoamperometry for a) Pt/C and b) Pt-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/C employing the oxidation peak potentials.

In situ chronoamperometric tests were performed for 60 minutes at the forward peak potential to increase the production of byproducts on the catalyst surface, thus obtaining more precise information on the possible pathway through which the nanocatalysts conduct the glycerol electro-oxidation reaction (Fig. 11). For Pt/C after 30 minutes, the major presence of glyoxylate (770 and 1763 cm<sup>-1</sup>) and CO<sub>3</sub><sup>2-</sup> (1284 and 1360 cm<sup>-1</sup>) was shown. After 60 minutes, the catalyst shows the predominant presence of glyoxylate (electron transfer: 8e<sup>-</sup>), [4d] with a significant decrease of CO<sub>3</sub><sup>2-</sup>, which could associate to deactivation of Pt active sites. Pt-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/C at 30 minutes shows, the formation of short-chain byproducts, while after 60 minutes, the predominance of glycolate at 495 cm<sup>-1</sup> is observed.

Additionally, after 60 minutes the formation of CO<sub>3</sub><sup>2-</sup> was observed, and related bands were found at 1290 and 1360 cm<sup>-1</sup>.

The combination of in situ cyclic voltammetry and chronoamperometry allows to establish the pathway by which the nanocatalysts oxidize glycerol (Scheme 2). Pt/C followed a glyoxylate pathway, whereas Pt-Ni(OH)2/C followed the mesoxalate pathway, forming glycolate as the main product. This analysis could explain the electrocatalytic behavior of both catalysts. Pt/C shows good activity due to formation of glyoxylate and carbonates but, at long times, the formation of CO<sub>3</sub><sup>2-</sup> suggested that at the oxidation peak potential, the active sites could deactivate due to possible adsorption of CO as intermediate. The excellent electrocatalytic properties of Pt-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> can be related to the abundance of OH groups on the near vicinity of Pt active sites, enabling the formation of shortchain byproducts such as glycolate and mesoxalate while, avoiding the formation of CO. Thus, in summary, SERS analysis shows experimental evidence of the enhanced activity of Pt by Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> promotion in the glycerol electro-oxidation reaction.

Scheme 2. Representation of the possible pathway followed by Pt/C and Pt-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/C to electro-oxidize glycerol in an alkaline medium. Blue circles indicated that Pt/C formed glyceraldehyde and glyoxylate as main products. Red circles indicated that Pt-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/C formed mesoxalate and glycolate as main products.

## Conclusions

Small-sized Pt and Pt-Ni(OH)2 nanoparticles supported on Vulcan carbon were synthesized using an aqueous chemical reduction reaction. These materials were evaluated as electrocatalysts for the glycerol electro-oxidation reaction. Pt-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/C had better electrocatalytic activity than Pt/C, presenting a higher current density (almost 45 mA mg<sup>-1</sup>), a more negative oxidation potential (-0.3 V vs. NHE) and a lower oxidation peak potential (0.02 V vs. NHE). These potentials were 44 and 90 mV more negative than the values found for Pt/C. The decrease of these potentials and, the increase of the current indicated that Pt-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>/C required density energy/electrical work to conduct the glycerol oxidation. This easiness to performed the glycerol oxidation was associated to the Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> incorporation, because they provided O-species for the oxidation of intermediates through a bifunctional mechanism; where, Ni(OH)2 acted as a catalyst mediator, facilitating the

dissociative adsorption of water to OH groups, increasing the amount of these species close to Pt active sites and thus, facilitating the charge transfer. The SERS analysis confirmed that the capability of Pt-Ni(OH)<sup>2</sup> for achieving a higher current density than Pt/C at the oxidation peak potential, was related to its ability to oxidize glycerol until the formation of glycolates, mesoxalates and formates. While, at this potential, Pt/C tend to form glyceraldehyde and glyoxylates as main products. Thus, the glycerol oxidation on Pt-Ni(OH)<sup>2</sup> involved a higher electron transfer (from 6 to 10 electrons) per glycerol molecule than Pt/C (from 2 to 8 electrons). In summary, the use of a homemade spectroelectrochemical cell enabled to determine easily the electrocatalytic effect of incorporating Ni(OH)<sup>2</sup> to Pt nanoparticles on glycerol electro-oxidation since a point of view of reaction pathway.

**Table 2.** Summary of vibrational bands found for Pt/C and Pt-Ni(OH)2/C.

| Table 2. Summary of vibrational bands found for Pt/C and Pt-Ni(OH)2/C. |                      |                            |  |  |  |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------|----------------------------|--|--|--|
| Pt/C                                                                   | Pt-Ni(OH)2/C         | Assignment                 |  |  |  |
| (Frequency cm-1<br>)                                                   | (Frequency cm-1<br>) |                            |  |  |  |
|                                                                        | 331, 339, 427, 429,  | M-C adsorption band        |  |  |  |
| 339, 433, 498, 685                                                     | 496, 498, 561, 685,  | and  (C-C aliphatic       |  |  |  |
|                                                                        | 687                  | chains) of glycerol        |  |  |  |
| 453, 559, 581, 599,                                                    | 431,532, 560, 591,   |  (C-C aliphatic           |  |  |  |
| 609, 730, 753, 759,                                                    | 593, 607, 613, 764,  | chains)                    |  |  |  |
| 782, 793                                                               | 776, 784             | Glyceraldehyde,            |  |  |  |
|                                                                        |                      | glyoxylate, mesoxalate     |  |  |  |
|                                                                        |                      |                            |  |  |  |
| 835, 863, 935, 983,                                                    | 833, 862, 864, 931,  |  (CH2)                    |  |  |  |
| 985                                                                    | 933, 987, 992        |                            |  |  |  |
| 1073                                                                   | 1066, 1068, 1070     | s (C-OH) from C1,C3       |  |  |  |
|                                                                        |                      | of glycerol                |  |  |  |
| 1124                                                                   | 1101, 1117, 1119,    | s (C-OH) from C2 of       |  |  |  |
|                                                                        | 1120                 | glycerol                   |  |  |  |
| 1169, 1180                                                             | 1173, 1176, 1185     |  (C-O) formate,           |  |  |  |
|                                                                        |                      | oxalate                    |  |  |  |
|                                                                        | 1263, 1272, 1274,    |                            |  |  |  |
| 1221, 1263                                                             | 1277, 1281, 1288,    |  (CH2)                    |  |  |  |
| 1284, 1360                                                             | 1321                 | 2-<br>)                    |  |  |  |
| 1338                                                                   | 1330, 1332           |  (CO3<br>D-band of carbon |  |  |  |
|                                                                        | 1363, 1370, 1394     |  (COH)                    |  |  |  |
|                                                                        |                      |  (CH) formate,            |  |  |  |
| 1437, 1473                                                             | 1342, 1390, 1406     | glyceraldehyde             |  |  |  |
|                                                                        | 1371, 1430, 1432     |  (CH)                     |  |  |  |
| 1477                                                                   | 1476, 1478           |  (CH2) of glycerol        |  |  |  |
|                                                                        | 1354, 1545, 1563,    |                            |  |  |  |
|                                                                        | 1552, 1583, 1585     | Mesoxalate                 |  |  |  |
| 1619                                                                   |                      | G-band of carbon           |  |  |  |
|                                                                        | 1644, 1646, 1651     |  (H2O) of water           |  |  |  |
| 1665, 1738, 1750,                                                      |                      |                            |  |  |  |
| 1755, 1758, 1767,                                                      | 1644, 1774, 1734,    |  (C=O) of aldehydes       |  |  |  |
| 1791                                                                   | 1760                 | and carboxylates           |  |  |  |

M-C metal support, =stretch, =twist, =bend, s=symmetric stretch

## **Experimental Section**

*Synthesis of Pt/C and Pt-Ni(OH)2/C nanoparticles*

Pt nanoparticles were synthesized using a previously reported aqueous reduction method, [25] but selected practical changes were performed. In brief, 105.1 mg of polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP, Sigma-Aldrich, mol. wt. 40,000) and 23 mg of L-ascorbic acid (Faga Lab®, 99.0%), used, respectively, as the surfactant and reducing agent, were mixed in 8 mL of water and heated to 80°C. Pt ions were supplied by 56.8 mg of H2PtCl6•6H2O (Sigma-Aldrich, ≥37.5%) and, together with 249.8 mg of the NaBr as additive (Sigma-Aldrich, Sigma Ultra, >99.0%), were mixed in 3 mL of water and added to the surfactant and reductive agent solution. The resulting solution was magnetically stirred for 3 hours at 80°C. After the first hour, 23 mg of L-ascorbic acid was mixed in 1 mL of water and added to the solution. After 2 hours of reaction, 2 mg of NaBH<sup>4</sup> (J. T. Baker, 98%) mixed in 1.5 mL of water was added to ensure complete reduction of platinum ions. Subsequently, 100 mg of Vulcan carbon (XC-72, Cabot®) used as the support was added to the solution, which was stirred for 30 minutes. The solution was washed several times with deionized water and centrifuged at 4300 rpm for 20 minutes between each wash. The resulting powder was dried at 100°C overnight.

Pt-Ni(OH)<sup>2</sup> nanoparticles were synthesized using a methodology similar to that used for Pt/C. In short, 105.6 mg of polyvinylpyrrolidone and 24 mg of L-ascorbic acid were mixed in 10 mL of water, poured into a threeneck flask and heated at 80°C in the presence of nitrogen gas (Infra, 99.999%) with the addition of 1 mL of 0.3 M KOH solution (Macron®, 86%) to basify the solution. Subsequently, 151.6 mg of NiSO4•6H2O (Aldrich, 99.999%) and 250 mg of the NaBr as additive were mixed in 3 mL of 0.3 M KOH solution and added to the previous solution when it reached 80°C. Furthermore, 3 mg of NaBH<sup>4</sup> mixed in 1 mL of water was added dropwise, and after a few minutes, 30 mg of H2PtCl6•6H2O was added to the flask. The solution was magnetically stirred for 2 hours at 80°C, and 3 mg of NaBH<sup>4</sup> mixed in 1 mL of water was added dropwise to ensure the reduction of Pt ions. A total of 30 minutes later, 100 mg of Vulcan carbon was added, and the solution was held under magnetic agitation for an additional 30 minutes. The resulting solution was transferred to a glass vial and sonicated for 30 minutes to ensure good dispersion between the metals and the Vulcan carbon support. Finally, the solution was purified and dried.

#### *Physicochemical characterization*

X-ray diffractograms of Pt/C and Pt-Ni(OH)2/C were obtained using a Bruker D8 Advance instrument operated at 30 kV and 30 mA. Thermogravimetric analyses were performed on a TA SDT-Q600 balance with a heating rate of 2°C min-1 under an air flow of 100 mL min-1 . HR-TEM images were obtained with a high-resolution transmission electron microscope (HR-TEM) (JEOL JEM2200) with spherical aberration correction for condensed lens. Energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX) and line-scan EDX were performed using an X-ray detector coupled with the JEOL JEM2200 TEM instrument. Fast Fourier transform TEM images (FTT images) and particle size distributions were calculated using the Gatan® Microscopy Suite software. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy was performed employing a Thermo Scientific Escalab 250Xi Spectrometer with a six-channel (channeltron) detector. Photoelectrons were generated with a monochromatic Al Ka (1486.68 eV) X-ray source. XPS spectra were deconvolved and, binding energies were adjusted utilizing the reported value of C element (284.5 eV). Surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy for *in situ* analysis of the oxidation reaction was performed using a HORIBA Xplora (Jobin Yvon) with a CCD Syncerity detector and a holographic grating of 1200 gr. mm-1 . The width of the slit was 100 µm, and the confocal hole of the system was set at 300 µm. Scattered radiation was collected at 90 grades. Detection of Raman scattering was accomplished with the use of an asymmetrical crossed Czerny–Turner spectrometer, back illuminated CCD camera (1024 × 256 pixels) cooled with liquid nitrogen to -50 ºC,

and a 20 mW laser at 638 nm supplied the excitation line. The laser beam focused by an Olympus 10X microscope objective was positioned at a 1 cm distance from the electrode surface. With this configuration, a resolution of 2 cm-1 was achieved.

#### *Electrochemical characterization*

The electrochemical experiments used cyclic voltammetry and chronoamperometry to determine the electrochemical profiles of Pt/C and Pt-Ni(OH)2/C and their electrocatalytic activities toward glycerol oxidation. To this end, a Gamry PC4/300 Potentiostat/Galvanostat instrument was used. The electrochemical profiles were obtained using the cyclic voltammetry electrochemical technique in 0.3 M KOH (86%, Macron™ Fine Chemical) alkaline media. The experiments were conducted in a typical three-electrode electrochemical glass cell using glassy carbon plates (SPI Instruments, 1.56 cm<sup>2</sup> ) as the working electrodes and a saturated calomel electrode and a graphite rod as the reference and counter-electrode, respectively. The electrocatalytic activities of both Pt/C and Pt-Ni(OH)2/C in glycerol oxidation were evaluated first in the traditional manner using an electrochemical glass cell and with the configuration described above, using glycerol (99.7%, BDH®) at 0.1, 0.5, and 1.5 M as fuel. Cyclic voltammograms were obtained in a deaerated KOH solution (using N2, 99.999%, Infra) by applying potentials in an electrochemical window from -0.6 to 0.4 V *vs*. NHE with a scan rate of 20 mV s-1 . The activity for glycerol oxidation was evaluated in a cylindrical electrochemical cell designed to operate together with Raman spectroscopy. Furthermore, the resulting catalysts were transferred to glassy carbon plates through catalytic inks. In both cases, the catalytic inks were prepared by mixing the powder with Nafion® and isopropyl alcohol, using 15 μL of Nafion and 100 μL of isopropyl alcohol for each milligram of catalyst. The activity and electrochemical profiles were normalized using the metal loading obtained from TGA, the Pt composition obtained by XRF and the total mass deposited on the electrode.

#### *Cell configuration for surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy experiments*

The electrocatalytic activity was evaluated *in situ* using a constructedelectrochemical cylindrical cell to follow the glycerol electro-oxidation. This novel cell design, as illustrated in Scheme 1d, consists of a cylindrical cell that can operate in the three-electrode electrochemical cell configuration. The working electrode connection is located under the cell to avoid impurities associated with the contact between the electrical conductors and the electrolytic solution. This electrochemical cell was constructed with Nylon polyamide (Nylamid®) and was 3 cm in diameter and 2 cm in height. The electrochemical configuration used modifiedglassy carbon plates as the working electrodes, Ag/AgCl sat. KCl as the reference electrode, and a graphite rod as the counter-electrode. Additionally, the SERS laser was centered on the working electrode surface, and the SERS spectra were recorded every 55 seconds. The electrochemical experiments consisted of performing cyclic voltammetry in a potential range of -0.6 to 0.4 V *vs*. NHE at 1 mV s-1 for 4 cycles and chronoamperometry for 60 minutes using the oxidation peak potential to confirm the species observed during the acquisition of the chronoamperograms. In both cases, 1.5 M glycerol was used as fuel, and 0.3 M KOH was used as the electrolyte. This concentration was determined experimentally as the optimal value required to detect chemical bands of several glycerol byproducts. Raman spectra of typical byproducts found for glycerol electro-oxidation were obtained at 638 nm in the SERS configuration presented in section 2.2. For this purpose, the following reagents were used: sodium mesoxalate monohydrate (≥98%, Sigma-Aldrich), Glycolic acid (Bioxtra ≥98%, Sigma-Aldrich), DLglyceraldehyde (≥90%, Sigma-Aldrich), glyoxylic acid monohydrate (98%, Sigma-Aldrich), formic acid (87%, BDH), oxalic acid (98%, Sigma-Aldrich) and glycerol (99.7%, BDH). Description of SERS spectra of Pt/C and Pt-Ni(OH)<sup>2</sup> used as SERS substrates and SERS assignments is presented in the supplementary information (Figs. S2 and S3).

## **Acknowledgements**

The authors gratefully acknowledge the Mexican Council for Science and Technology (CONACYT) for supporting this work through the project Laboratorios Nacionales Grant 293442, and CONACYT-Infraestructura 2018 Grant No. 293764. The authors also acknowledge the technical support for TEM images offered by Carlos Elías Ornelas Gutiérrez from the nanotechnology laboratory (nanotech México) at Centro de Investigación en Materiales Avanzados CIMAV S. C.

**Keywords:** Electrochemistry • Glycerol electro-oxidation • Pt-Ni(OH)<sup>2</sup> • Surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy • Energy conversion.

- [1] a) M. Simoes, S. Baranton, C. Countanceau, *ChemSusChem* **2012**, 5, 2106-2124. b) J.-M. Clacens, Y. Pouilloux, J. Barrault, *Appl. Catal. A* **2002**, 227, 181-190.
- [2] A. Behr, J. Eilting, K. Irawadi, J. Leschinski, F. Lindner, *Green Chem.* **2008**, 10, 13–30.
- [3] M. Simoes, S. Baranton, C. Countanceau, *Appl. Catal. B* **2010**, 93, 354- 362.
- [4] a) P.S. Fernández, M.E. Martins, G.A. Camara, *Electrochim. Acta* **2012**, 66, 180-187. b) J. F. Gomes, G. Tremiliosi-Filho, *Electrocatalysis* **2011**, *2*, 96-105. c) A. Zalineeva, S. Baranton, C. Coutanceau, *Electrochim. Acta* **2015**, *176*, 705-717. d) J. F. Gomes, A. C. Garcia, L. H. S. Gasparotto, N. E. de Souza, E. B. Ferreira, C. Pires, G. Tremiliosi-Filho, *Electrochim. Acta* **2014**, *144*, 361-368. e) V. L. Oliveira, C. Morais, K. Servat, T. W. Napporn, G. Tremiliosi-Filho, K. B. Kokoh, *Electrochim. Acta* **2014**, *117*, 255-262. f) Y. Kwon, M. T. M. Koper, *Anal. Chem.* **2010**, *82*, 5420–5424. g) Y. Holade, C. Morais, K. Servat, T. W. Napporn, K. B. Kokoh, *ACS Catal.* **2013**, *3*, 2403–2411.
- [5] a) T. Iwasita, F.C. Nart, *Prog. Surf. Sci.* **1997**, 55, 271-340. b) R.F.B. de Sauza, E.T. Neto, M.L. Calegaro, E.A. Santos, H.S. Martinho, M. C. dos Santos, *Electrocatalysis* **2011**, 2, 28-34. c) G. Samjeské, A. Miki, S. Ye, M. Osawa, *J. Phys. Chem. B* **2006**, 110, 16559-16566. d) G. L. Beltramo, T.E. Shubina, M.T.M. Koper, *ChemPhysChem* **2005**, 6, 2597-2606. e) Y. Wang, K. Jiang, W.-B. Cai, *Electrochim. Acta* **2015**, 162, 100-107.
- [6] a) Z. Zhang, L. Xin, J. Qi, D.J. Chadderdon, W. Li, *Appl. Catal. B* **2013**, 136-137, 29-39. b) A. L. Wang, H. Xu, J. X. Feng, L. X. Ding, Y. X. Tong, G. R. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.*, **2013**, 135, 10703–10709.
- [7] J. F. Gomes, F.B. Castelo de Paula, L. H. S. Gasparotto, G. Tremiliosi-Filho, *Electrochim. Acta* **2012**, 76, 88-93.
- [8] a) Y.L. Min, Y.C. Chen, Y.G. Zhao, C. Chen, *Mater. Lett*. **2008**, 62, 4503–4505. b) Z. Gu, D. Bin, Y. Feng, K. Zhang, J. Wang, B. Yan, S. Li, Z. Xiong, C. Wang, Y. Shiraishi, Y. Du, *Appl. Surf. Sci*. **2017**, 411, 379– 385. c) D.B. Kim, H.J. Chun, Y.K. Lee, H.H. Kwon, H.I. Lee, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy*. **2010**, 35, 313–320. d) V. Comignani, J.M. Sieben, M.E. Brigante, M.M.E. Duarte, *J. Power Sources*. **2015**, 278, 119–127. e) P.K. Shen, C. Xu, R. Zeng, Y. Liu, *Electrochem. Solid-State Lett*. **2006**, 9, A39–A42. f) R.S. Amin, R.M.A. Hameed, K.M. El-Khatib, M.E. Youssef, A.A. Elzatahry, *Electrochim. Acta*. **2012**, 59, 499–508. g) F.C. Simões, P. Olivi, *Electrocatalysis*. **2010**, 1, 163–168. h) A. L. Wang, H.

- Xu, J. X. Feng, L. X. Ding, Y. X. Tong and G. R. Li, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2013, 135, 10703–10709.
- [9] Z. Tang, D. Geng, G. Lu, *Mater. Lett.* **2005**, 59, 1567-1570.
- [10] Z. Wu, X.L. Huang, Z.L. Wang, J.J. Xu, H.G. Wang, X.B. Zhang, *Sci. Rep*. **2014**, 4, 3669.
- [11] S. Jingyan, L. Yuwen, W. Zhiyong, W. Cunxin, *J. Pharm. Biomed. Anal*. **2013**, 77, 116–119.
- [12] M.F. Silva, C.A. Silva, F.C. Fogo, E.A.G. Pineda, A.A.W. Hechenleitner, *J. Therm. Anal. Calorim*. **2005**, 79, 367–370.
- [13] S. Zhang, S. Guo, H. Zhu, D. Su, S. Sun, *J. Am. Chem. Soc*. **2012**, 134, 5060–5063.
- [14] Y. Zhao, X. Yang, J. Tian, F. Wang, L. Zhan, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2010**, 35, 3249-3257.
- [15] C.A. López-Rico, J. Galindo-de-la-Rosa, E. Ortiz-Ortega, L. Álvarez-Contreras, J. Ledesma-García, M. Guerra-Balcázar, L.G. Arriaga, N. Arjona, *Electrochim. Acta* **2016**, 207, 164-176.
- [16] G.A. El-Nagar, A.M. Mohammad, M.S. El-Deab, B.E. El-Anadouli, J. *Electrochem. Soc*. **2012**, 159, F249–F254.
- [17] G.A. El-Nagar, A.M. Mohammad, M.S. El-Deab, B.E. El-Anadouli, *Electrochim. Acta*. **2013**, 94, 62–71.
- [18] a) H. Hitmi, E.M. Belgsir, J.M. Léger, C. Lamy, R.O. Lezna, *Electrochim. Acta*. 1994, 39, 407–415. b) M. Kahraman, *Scanning*, **2008**, 10338– 10343. c) A. Rygula, K. Majzner, K. M. Marzec, A. Kaczor, M. Pilarczyk, M. Baranska, *J. Raman Spectrosc.*, **2013**, 44, 1061–1076, d) P. L.

- Stiles, J. A. Dieringer, N. C. Shah, R. P. Van Duyne, *Annu. Rev. Anal. Chem.*, **2008**, 1, 601–626.
- [19] a) A. Savitzky, M.J.E. Golay, *Anal. Chem.* **1964**, *36*, 1627–1639. b) A. Mudalige, A.J.E. Pemberton, *Vib. Spectrosc*. **2007**, 45, 27-35.
- [20] a) Y. Wang, Y. Zhao, J. Yin, M. Liu, Q. Dong, Y. Su, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2014**, 39, 1325-1335. b) Z. Zhang, L. Xin, K. Sun, W. Li, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2011**, 36, 12686-12697. c) Z.X. Liang, T.S. Zhao, J.B. Xu, L.D. Zhu, *Electrochim. Acta* **2009**, 54, 2203-2208.
- [21] a) T. Wilke, X. Gao, C.G. Takoudis, M.J. Weaver, *Langmuir*. **1991**, 7, 714–721. b) S.C.S. Lai, M.T.M. Koper, *Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys*. **2009**, 11, 10446–10456. c) X.-F. Lin, B. Ren, Z.-Q. Tian, *J. Phys. Chem. B*. **2004**, 108, 981–986.
- [22] a) K. Ito, H.J. Bernstein, *Can. J. Chem.* **1956**, *34*, 170-178. b) S.C.S. Lai, S.E.F. Kleijn, F.T.Z. Öztürk, V.C. van Rees Vellinga, J. Koning, P. Rodriguez, M.T.M. Koper, *Catal. Today* **2010**, *154*, 92-104.
- [23] C.-X. She, J. Xiang, B. Ren, Q.-L. Zhong, X.-C. Wang, Z.-Q. Tian, *J. Korean Electrochem. Soc.* **2002**, 5, 221-225.
- [24] a) R. Keiner, T. Frosch, T. Massad, S. Trumbore, J. Popp, *Analyst* **2014**, *139*, 3879-3884. b)
- [25] G.R. Anderson, *J. Phys. Chem.* **1977**, 81, 273–276
- [26] N. Arjona, M. Guerra-Balcázar, L. Ortiz-Frade, G. Osorio-Monreal, L. Álvarez-Contreras, J. Ledesma-García, L.G. Arriaga, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2013**, 1, 15524-15529.

# FULL PAPER

Electrocatalytic activity of Pt - Ni(OH) <sup>2</sup>/C and Pt/C for glycerol electro -oxidation is analyzed by spectroelectrochemical experiments using the surface -enhanced Raman spectroscopy. This analysis confirmed that the capability of Pt -Ni(OH) <sup>2</sup> for achieving a higher current density than Pt/C was related to its ability to oxidize glycerol until the formation of glycolates, mesoxalates and formates. While, Pt/C tend to form glyceraldehyde and glyoxylates .

*I. Velázquez-Hernández, M. T. Oropeza - Guzmán, M. Guerra -Balcázar, L. Álvarez-Contreras, N. Arjona\**

*Page No. – Page No.*

**Electrocatalytic promotion of Pt nanoparticles by incorporation of Ni(OH) <sup>2</sup> for glycerol electro -oxidation: analysis of activity and reaction pathway**