---
source: Wang 等 - 2025 - Unconventional Interconnected High‐Entropy Alloy Nanodendrites for Remarkably Efficient C−C Bond Cle.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 86.905s
generated: 2026-01-09T05:17:25.933645Z
---

Electrocatalysis

Zitierweise: Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. **2025**, 64, e202420752 doi.org/10.1002/anie.202420752

# Unconventional Interconnected High-Entropy Alloy Nanodendrites for Remarkably Efficient C—C Bond Cleavage toward Complete Ethanol Oxidation

Yan Wang, Huiying Meng, Renqin Yu, Jie Hong, Yifan Zhang,\* Zhonghong Xia,\* and Yong Wang\*

**Abstract:** Developing ethanol oxidation electrocatalysts with high catalytic activity, durability, and resistance to CO poisoning remains a major challenge. In recent years, high-entropy alloys (HEAs) with unique physical and chemical properties have garnered substantial attention. Herein, a class of HEA nanodendrites are designed by a simple wet-chemical method. The mass activity and specific activity of the septenary PtIrRhCo-FeNiCu high-entropy alloy catalyst are 2.13 A mg<sub>pt</sub><sup>-1</sup>/  $1.05~\mathrm{A\,mg_{Pt+Ir+Rh}}^{-1}$  and  $2.95~\mathrm{mA\,cm^{-2}}$ , which reach 5.76-/ 2.84-fold and 5.57-fold improvements relative to commercial Pt/C  $(0.37 \text{ A mg}_{Pt}^{-1} \text{ and } 0.53 \text{ mA cm}^{-2})$ , respectively. Remarkably, after the i-t test of up to 100,000s and the accelerated durability test of 1500 cycles, 81.22 % and 68.54 % of the initial mass activity are well retained, respectively. The lattice distortion-associated local tensile strain as demonstrated by increased Pt-Pt bond length enhances ethanol adsorption and reduces reaction barriers. Moreover, hysteresis diffusion effect induced by lattice distortion in the HEA nanodendrites contributes to their superb ethanol oxidation stability. In situ infrared absorption spectroscopy reveals that the three HEA nanodendrites mainly follow C1 pathway with C-C bond breaking to form CO followed by CO oxidation especially at a wide range of high potentials. Theoretical calculations reveal that among these HEAs, PtIrRhCoFeNiCu possesses the lowest energy barrier for C-C bond scission due to synergy among Pt/Ir/Rh and water dissociation due to synergy among Co/Fe/Ni/ Cu. This work provides insights to design unique HEA nanostructures with extraordinary catalytic performances and selectivity compared to conventional nanoparticles.

[\*] Y. Wang, H. Meng, J. Hong, Y. Zhang, Prof. Y. Wang School of Environmental & Chemical Engineering Shanghai University Shanghai 200444, China E-mail: zyf010626@shu.edu.cn yongwang@shu.edu.cn

R. Yu, Z. Xia Institute for Sustainable Energy, College of Sciences Shanghai University Shanghai 200444, China Introduction

Fossil fuel depletion and environmental concerns stimulate extensive research on novel energy storage and conversion devices.<sup>[1-5]</sup> Direct ethanol fuel cells (DEFCs), wherein chemical energy in ethanol as liquid fuel is electrochemically converted to electric energy, possess multiple advantages such as no environmental pollution and high conversion efficiency. [6] The anodic thanol oxidation reaction (EOR), involves the cleavage of the C-C bond by transferring 12 electrons (i.e., the C1-12e pathway) in the presence of electrocatalysts. Platinum supported by carbon (Pt/C) is the commercially used EOR electrocatalyst. [7,8] One drawback for Pt/C is that continuous accumulation of strongly absorbed CO species formed by ethanol dehydrogenation block catalytic active sites and poison catalyst surface. Moreover, ethanol oxidation is inclined to proceed in C2-4e or C2-2e pathway in which ethanol is incompletely oxidized to acetic acid or acetaldehyde, respectively. The selectivity of CO<sub>2</sub> production becomes lower especially at high potentials, which will weaken the power density of DEFCs.[9,10]

To address the challenge, several strategies have been proposed for the development of efficient EOR catalysts. First, alloying Pt with other transition metals serves to modulate the Pt electronic structure (the energy position of *d*-band center) and mitigate the intrinsic CO adsorption strength. Ligand effect and strain effect usually play pivotal roles in the electronic modulation. Second, the incorporation of oxophilic metals such as Ir and Rh helps facilitate C–C bond scission while accelerating OH formation by water dissociation at lower potentials, the latter of which oxidizes and desorbs CO species. [13,14]

High-entropy alloys (HEAs) provide a feasible strategy for the rational design of efficient electrocatalysts due to their tunable composition and electronic structure within a wide range. The electron transfer and synergistic effect among constituent metals optimize the electroactivity and binding energies toward key intermediates by the catalysts. Meanwhile, the high configurational entropy contributes to superb stability of a solid-solution structure with uniform elemental mixing. Despite recent advances on HEAs as highly active electrocatalysts, the reports focused on HEAs with interconnected network structure seem to be rare. [20]

Herein, we synthesized a series of novel HEA nanodendrites (HEA NDs) via mild solvothermal approach.

E-mail: 10011493@shu.edu.cn

Impressively, the mass activity and specific activity of septenary PtIrRhCoFeNiCu HEA NDs reach 2.13 Amg<sub>Pt</sub><sup>-1</sup> and 2.95 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively, 5.76- and 5.57-fold enhanced relative to commercial Pt/C. More importantly, a high proportion of its original mass activity is well maintained after the chronoamperometric test and accelerated durability test. The HEA NDs with intimate coordination interaction possess noticeable local tensile strain, which enables robust adsorption of ethanol molecules and promotes EOR activities. Meanwhile, the sluggish atomic diffusion due to lattice distortion elevates catalytic stability. The in situ infrared absorption spectroscopy unambiguously demonstrates the superior tendency toward C-C bond cleavage and complete ethanol oxidation across a wide potential range. This work represents a typical example of the synergism among intrinsically active Pt, Fe/Co/Ni/Cu responsible for OH<sub>ads</sub> formation by water adsorption and dissociation, and Ir/Rh sites capable of breaking C-C bonds. The work opens up a new avenue for structural tuning and performance optimization of Pt alloy catalysts.

#### Results and Discussion

PtIrRhCoFeNiCu HEA NDs catalysts were synthesized by an oleylamine-based wet chemical approach (Figure S1). In a typical scenario, Pt(acac)<sub>2</sub>, Ir(acac)<sub>3</sub>, Rh(acac)<sub>3</sub>, Co(acac)<sub>3</sub>, Fe(acac)<sub>3</sub>, Ni(acac)<sub>2</sub> and CuCl<sub>2</sub>·2H<sub>2</sub>O were used as metal precursors, cetyltrimethyl ammonium chloride (CTAC) as structure-directing agent, glucose as reducing agent and oleylamine as solvent and capping agent (see Supporting Information for details). For comparison, quinary PtIrRh-CoCu NDs and senary PtIrRhCoFeCu NDs were also prepared. The transmission electron microscopy (TEM) shows the uniformly distributed PtIrRhCoFeNiCu nanocrystals with nearly 100% selectivity of nanodendrite structure (Figure 1a and Figure S2). The high-resolution TEM (HR-TEM) image of a single ND shows the interplanar spacing of 0.219 nm corresponding to the (111) plane of a typical face-centered cubic (fcc) Pt structure (Figure 1b, c), consistent with the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) pattern (Figure 1d). A surface bounded by many sections of high-index crystallographic facets can also be observed by aberration-corrected high-angle annular darkfield scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) image, such as (331), (442), etc (Figure 1e). Steno's Law, which defines the interfacial angles between two adjacent facets, is used to determine the indices of these high-index facets. The parallelogram rule of vector superposition based on  $(11\overline{1})$  and  $(1\overline{11})$  spots (facets) gives rise to high-index facets like  $(20\overline{2})$ ,  $(31\overline{3})$  and  $(42\overline{4})$  with the increasing step of  $(11\overline{1})^{[21]}$  (Figure S3). The high-index facets featured by abundant low-coordinated atomic steps have higher surface energies (with the general order of (111) < (100) < (110) < (hkl)), and are thus more actively involved in electrocatalytic process.[22]

The STEM-Energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (STEM-EDS) mapping and line scanning images show that Pt/Ir/Rh/Co/Fe/Ni/Cu elements are uniformly distributed

throughout the PtIrRhCoFeNiCu HEA NDs, even if there is slight elemental enrichment owing to the atomic interdiffusion during the nucleation and growth (Figure 1f-h and Figure S4). The Pt/Ir/Rh/Co/Fe/Ni/Cu atomic percentage in a much larger picture containing multitudinous HEA NDs was shown to be 22.02/10.97/23.98/7.40/12.08/17.05/6.51 (inset of Figure 1h), in line with the single-nanodendrite result (23.12/9.41/25.80/4.33/12.42/18.87/6.05) and coupled plasma-optical emission spectrometry (ICP-OES) composition of 24.73/12.56/25.20/4.39/12.61/15.86/4.65 (Table S1), indicative of its uniform elemental mixing. The mixed configurational entropy (S) is defined as:  $S = -R^* \sum_i (x_i^* \ln x_i)$ , where R and  $x_i$  denote molar gas constant and molar percentage of each element, respectively. [19] The S values of PtIrRhCoFeNiCu NDs are 1.79R, 1.84R and 1.78R based on single-nanodendrite EDS, large-area EDS and ICP results, respectively, all of which are significantly higher than 1.50R, suggestive of the formation of a robust HEA. Furthermore, the powder X-ray diffraction (PXRD) pattern shows typical Pt fcc structure of HEA NDs without noticeable impurity peaks (Figure 1i). The positive shift toward higher angles relative to Pt indicates that Pt was successfully alloyed with these foreign metals of smaller lattice constants (for instance, Pt: 0.392 nm, Ir: 0.384 nm, Rh: 0.380 nm). Also, quinary PtIrRh-CoCu and senary PtIrRhCoFeCu HEA NDs were successfully synthesized with well-defined self-assembly structure of nanopetals (Figure S5-S9). The two nanodendrites are both enclosed by (111) facets. Elemental mappings, line scans and region-specific STEM-EDS of a single PtIrRhCoCu and PtIrRhCoFeCu HEA ND also show overall homogeneous elemental distribution. The Pt/Ir/Rh/Co/Cu and Pt/Ir/Rh/Co/ Fe/Cu atomic ratios are 35.96/13.25/27.08/15.31/8.39 and 32.74/12.38/28.61/4.38/15.51/6.38 for quinary and senary HEA NDs, respectively. The S values of both nanodendrites  $(\geq 1.50 \text{ R})$  corroborate the formation of HEA structures.

The surface electronic structure of three HEA NDs were analyzed using X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The XPS full spectra validate the existence of constituent elements in the HEA NDs (Figure S10). The metallic species dominate the chemical states of precious elements (Pt, Ir and Rh) in three HEA NDs, albeit with a small degree of oxidation (Figure 1j, Figure S11 and Table S2). As illustrated in Figure 1j, the metallic Pt 4f<sub>7/2</sub> peaks situated at 71.86 eV, 71.85 eV and 71.97 eV for quinary, senary and septenary HEA ND catalysts show higher binding energies than the pure Pt with PtIrRhCoFeNiCu HEA NDs having the largest upshift. [23,24] It should be pointed out that several factors apart from electronegativity difference such as intraatomic electron transfer and orbital rehybridization contribute to the final shifts of binding energies. [25,26] The upshift of Pt core-level orbitals is correlated with the shift of energy center of occupied valence-band or d band relative to Fermi level. [27-29] This can be manifested by valence-band XPS spectra (Figure 1k), wherein the d-band centers of PtIrRh-CoFeNiCu and PtIrRhCoCu HEA NDs are positioned at -3.58 eV and -3.74 eV, respectively, upshifting away from that of Pt/C (-4.03 eV). The Pt-CO bond is weakened with deficient electrons backdonated from Pt orbitals to anti-

*Figure 1.* Structural characterization of PtIrRhCoFeNiCu high-entropy alloy nanodendrites. (a) Representative TEM image. (b) HRTEM image and (c) the lattice fringes in (b). (d) FFT pattern of an individual nanodendrite. (e) Aberration-corrected HAADF-STEM image of the surface high-index facets of the petal of PtIrRhCoFeNiCu nanodendrite. (f) HAADF-STEM image and (g) the corresponding STEM elemental mapping of seven elements. (h) STEM-EDS result of large-area PtIrRhCoFeNiCu high-entropy alloy nanodendrites (the inset is line scan of an individual PtIrRhCoFeNiCu HEA nanodendrite). (i) PXRD patterns of all electrocatalysts. (j) High-resolution XPS Pt 4f spectra in the three HEA nanodendrites. (k) Surface valence-band XPS spectra of the three HEA nanodendrites. The vertical lines indicate the energy positions of the *d*-band centers assuming the Fermi level is located at 0 eV.

bonding orbitals of CO molecules, which facilitates the oxidative desorption of CO and improves its anti-CO poisoning capability.[30] The metallic and multiple oxidation species coexist in Co 2p, Cu 2p, Fe 2p, and Ni 2p XPS spectra for three HEA NDs (Figure S12–S14).

X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) was used to further analyze the electronic and coordination structures of the elemental atoms. The X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) results at Pt L3-edge indicate that the white-line intensities of the HEA NDs at around 11566 eV are comparable to Pt foil and far away from PtO2, verifying that the metallic states are predominant in both catalysts (Figure 2a). It is revealed that the white-line intensity of PtIrRhCoCu HEAs is relatively higher than that of PtIrRhCoFeNiCu HEAs, indicating that the latter shows a higher proportion of Pt metallic state with higher degree of alloying and favors electrocatalysis. This can also be observed by the absence of Pt O shell of Fourier Transform Extended X-ray Absorption Fine Structure (FT-EXAFS) spectra (Figure 2b). The FT-EXAFS peak configurations resemble those of Pt foil, confirming metallic states dominate both PtIrRhCoCu and PtIrRhCoFeNiCu HEAs.

The FT-EXAFS fitting analysis was conducted to demonstrate the presence of two coordination shells, i.e. the first shell corresponding to Pt-transition metal (Pt-TM) at around 2.55 Å and second shell attributed to Pt Pt/Rh/Ir at around 2.82 Å (Figure S15 and Table S3). Here, Pt Pt, Pt Rh, and Pt Ir bonds are not strictly distinguished because the atomic radii of Pt-group precious metals are so similar. The bond lengths of Pt Pt/Rh/Ir in the two HEA NDs are larger than that of the Pt foil (2.77 Å). The alteration in bond length points to the lattice distortion effect due to the change in the level of local ordering within the alloys.[31] The severe lattice distortion results from the

Figure 2. Local electronic/atomic structure characterizations (a) Pt L<sub>3</sub>-edge XANES of HEAs. Inset shows the enlarged spectra at Pt L<sub>3</sub>-edge. (b) The Fourier transform (FT) of the Pt L3-edge EXAFS spectra of HEAs as well as reference samples. (c) Rh K-edge XANES of HEAs. (d) The FT of the Rh K-edge EXAFS spectra of the samples. (e) WTs of Pt L<sub>3</sub>-edge EXAFS oscillations for Pt foil, PtO<sub>2</sub>, PtIrRhCoCu, and PtIrRhCoFeNiCu.

deviation of lattice away from their ideal positions due to mismatch in atom sizes and the random occupation of metal atoms within the HEAs.[32] The lattice constants of HEAs differ from simple alloys (binary, ternary) due to the interactions among their different elements.[33] The generation of local tensile strain of 1.8% relative to the Pt foil here in PtIrRhCoCu and PtIrRhCoFeNiCu HEA NDs is closely associated with lattice distortion. Local strain can also be manifested by broadening of PXRD characteristic peaks.[34-36] The local strain as non-equilibrium state promotes formation of structural defects, which enables robust interaction and activation with adsorbates. The reaction energy barriers are thus decreased with enhanced EOR catalytic activity. Previous report also stressed that the more available above-Fermi-level d-states of Rh alloved with Pt enhance ethanol adsorption.<sup>[37]</sup> Compared to PtIrRhCoCu. the addition of Fe and Ni in PtIrRhCoFeNiCu results in a significant increase from 3.1 to 5.9 in the Pt-TM coordination number (CN). It is worth noting that Pt coordinations with Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu are difficult to differentiate because of their similar distances and amplitudes for the first shell.<sup>[38]</sup> Herein, the total Pt CN (CN<sub>Pt-TM</sub>+CN<sub>Pt-noble metal</sub>) of 11.3 for PtIrRhCoCu and 11.6 for PtIrRhCoFeNiCu represent negligible discrepancy with Pt foil (CN=12), corroborating that there is no Pt segregation on the surface. [39,40] The coordination of Pt with noble metals is reduced from 8.2 to 5.7. The above results unequivocally show that Pt is fully coordinated with the transition metals in addition to the noble metals which, to a certain extent, confirms the existence of highentropy alloys.

Similarly, the Rh K-edge XANES spectra show that the white-line intensities of HEAs are comparable to Rh foil rather than Rh<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>, indicative of the dominating metallic state of Rh in both HEAs catalysts (Figure 2c). Based on

the FT-EXAFS fitting results (Figure 2d, Figure S16 and Table S4), the peaks at around 2.5 and 2.7 Å are consistent with Rh foil with no peak of oxidation state detected, verifying that metallic states are prevalent in the two HEAs. Furthermore, the introduction of Fe and Ni does not noticeably alter the coordination environments of Rh, as indicated by the Rh-Fe/Co/Ni/Cu CN of 6.6 and Rh-Pt/Rh/ Ir CN of 4.8 in PtIrRhCoFeNiCu relative to Rh-Co/Cu CN of 6.5 and Rh-Pt/Rh/Ir CN of 4.2 in PtIrRhCoCu of the fitting results. The wavelet transform analysis unravels the two sets of intensity maxima for Pt L<sub>3</sub>-edge wave transforms of PtIrRhCoCu and PtIrRhCoFeNiCu HEA NDs at ca. 2.2 Å and 2.7 Å, corresponding to Pt-Co/Cu (Pt-Fe/Co/Ni/ Cu) and Pt-Pt/Rh/Ir coordination, respectively (Figure 2e). There is no Pt-O contribution to the intensity maxima, substantiating the absence of oxide states in the two HEA NDs.[41]

Using PtIrRhCoFeNiCu HEA NDs as an archetype, the EOR electrocatalytic behaviors were evaluated by a rotating disk electrode (RDE) system. The cyclic voltammetry (CV) curves are collected at a sweeping rate of 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup> after electrochemical activation in Ar-saturated 0.1 M HClO<sub>4</sub> for 100 cycles at 500 mV s<sup>-1</sup> in the potential range of 0.05–1.10 V vs. RHE (Figure 3a). By calculating the integrated areas of hydrogen desorption peaks in underpotential regions (H<sub>upd</sub>), the ECSAs of PtIrRhCoCu HEA NDs, PtIrRhCoFeCu HEA NDs, PtIrRhCoFeNiCu HEA NDs and commercial Pt/C were determined to be 61.05, 71.36, 72.11 and 69.80 m<sup>2</sup> g<sub>Pt</sub><sup>-1</sup>, respectively (Table S5). The mass activity of PtIrRhCoFeNiCu HEA NDs was 2.13 Amg<sub>Pt</sub><sup>-1</sup>, which is superior to PtIrRhCoCu HEA NDs (1.76 Amg<sub>Pt</sub><sup>-1</sup>) and PtIrRhCoFeCu HEA NDs (1.40 Amg<sub>Pt</sub><sup>-1</sup>) and 5.76-fold higher than Pt/C (0.37 Amg<sub>Pt</sub><sup>-1</sup>) (Figure 3b). Meanwhile, the ECSA-normalized specific activity of PtIrRhCoFeNiCu 1521375, 2025, 10, Downloaded from https://onlinelbrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202420752 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [08/0/12026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicab

Figure 3. Electrocatalytic EOR performances on different catalysts. (a) CVs recorded in 0.1 M HClO<sub>4</sub> solution with a scan rate of 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. (b, c) Pt mass-normalized and ECSA-normalized activities of EOR in 0.1 M HClO<sub>4</sub> + 0.5 M CH<sub>3</sub>CH<sub>2</sub>OH. (d) Noble metal mass-normalized EOR activities. (e) Pt mass-normalized activities toward EOR after *i-t* tests. (f) The mass activity retention of different catalysts after *i-t* tests. (g) Detailed comparison of mass activities toward EOR after different potential cycles. (h) CO stripping curves of different catalysts.

HEA NDs stands out among the three catalysts with an improvement factor of 5.57 relative to commercial Pt/C (2.95 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> vs. 0.53 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), being one of the most effective Pt-based alloy EOR catalysts assessed in the same medium reported so far (Figure 3c and Table S6). Also, the specific activities of PtIrRhCoCu HEA NDs and PtIrRhCo-FeCu HEA NDs reach 2.88 and 1.96 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively. Normalizing current of forward scan to all noble metals (Pt + Ir + Rh) gives rise to mass activity of 1.05 A mg<sub>Pt+Ir+Rh</sub> for PtIrRhCoFeNiCu HEA NDs, almost three-fold enhanced relative to Pt/C (Figure 3d). PtIrRhCoCu and PtIrRhCoFeCu HEA NDs also exhibit high mass activities of 0.97 and 0.68  $A mg_{Pt+Ir+Rh}^{-1}$ , respectively. The ratio of forward current density to backward current density  $(I_f/I_h)$  is an important descriptor of CO tolerance. The septenary HEA NDs shows the highest  $I_f/I_b$  of 1.37, higher than that of quinary HEA NDs (1.24), senary HEA NDs (1.31) and Pt/C (1.17) (Figure S17). The great anti-CO poisoning capability is supported by aforementioned weakened Pt-CO bonding in XPS

Furthermore, to evaluate EOR stability, the HEA ND catalysts were subject to chronoamperometric (CA) tests and consecutive potential cycling. First, a 100,000 s CA test was performed at 0.65 V (vs. RHE, same hereinafter) to monitor the variation of current density over time (Fig-

ure S18). The mass activity of PtIrRhCoFeNiCu HEA NDs evaluated after i-t tests of 100,000s is 1.73 A mg<sub>Pt</sub><sup>-1</sup> (Figure 3e), corresponding to an exceptional activity retention of 81.22%, better than those of PtIrRhCoCu HEA NDs (75.57%), PtIrRhCoFeCu HEA NDs (75.00%) and commercial Pt/C (40.54%) (Figure 3f and Figure S19). The retained mass activity of PtIrRhCoFeNiCu HEA NDs still displays a 11.53-fold improvement compared to that of Pt/C (0.15 A mg<sub>Pt</sub><sup>-1</sup>). Besides, the activities of PtIrRhCoCu and PtIrRhCoFeCu HEA NDs after long-lasting i-t tests are 8.87 and 7.00 times better than that of Pt/C. Furthermore, the EOR stability was evaluated by the CV cycles at a sweeping rate of 200 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. The EOR mass activities of PtIrRhCoFe-NiCu HEA NDs after 500, 1000, and 1500 potential cycles are 1.80, 1.58, and 1.46 Amg<sub>Pt</sub><sup>-1</sup>, respectively (Figure 3g and Figure S20). After 1500 cycles, the mass activities of PtIrRh-CoCu and PtIrRhCoFeCu HEA NDs are well retained at 1.21 and 0.84 A mg<sub>Pt</sub><sup>-1</sup>, respectively, both of which significantly surpass that of Pt/C  $(0.25\,A\,mg_{Pt}^{-1})$ . The remarkable stability stems from the lattice distortion which optimizes the local electronic structure within the HEA catalysts. As one of the distinct features of high-entropy alloys, the lattice distortion hinders the movement and replacement of atoms, which in turn triggers the hysteresis diffusion effect, thereby raising the energy barriers of atomic diffusion and increasing 1521375, 2025, 10, Downloaded from https://onlinelbrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202420752 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [08/0/12026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicab

15213757, 2025, 10, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202420752 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [08/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

the catalytic stability of the material.[32,42] The intimate interaction among constituent elements also serves to improve the long-term stability. The morphological nanostructures of PtIrRhCoFeNiCu HEA NDs were carried out, as illustrated in Figure S21. Overall, the nanodendrite morphology was well preserved with the exposure of (200) facets. The STEM-mapping and line scan results demonstrate the homogeneous elemental distribution even after 100,000 s. The mixed configurational entropy (S) of PtIrRh-CoFeNiCu HEA was determined to be 1.70R based on the STEM-EDS composition, suggesting that high-entropy nature was well retained. Likewise, the S value of PtIrRhCo-FeCu HEA with uniform elemental distribution and no segregation is still 1.50R after 100,000 s corresponding to high-entropy feature, even if there is some moderate degree of dissolution of transition metals (Figure S22). Also, XRD confirms that PtIrRhCoFeNiCu and PtIrRhCoFeCu retain high-entropy Pt alloy (solid solution) with no impurity phases (Figure S23). The almost negligible morphological changes of the three HEA NDs catalysts after *i-t* and potential cycling tests confirm their superior structural stability as well as tolerance toward poisonous intermediates (Figure S24–S25). We conducted CO stripping tests to verify the resistance toward CO deactivation. As compared to Pt/C (0.85 V), the CO oxidation onset potential of PtIrRhCoFeNiCu HEA NDs shows a negative shift of 270 mV (0.58 V) (Figure 3h), indicating that it possesses excellent anti-CO poisoning ability. The onset potentials of PtIrRhCoCu HEA NDs and PtIrRhCoFeCu HEA NDs also shift negatively to 0.59 V and 0.63 V, respectively. The electronic modulation induced by the incorporation of foreign elements weakens the intrinsic CO binding strength. On the other hand, the OHads formation at lower potentials for the three HEA NDs alleviate poisoning by faster oxidative removal of CO and promote more efficient C1 pathway, as illustrated in Figure 3a.

The mechanistic insights of ethanol electrooxidation were examined by in situ attenuated total reflection surfaceenhanced infrared absorption spectroscopy (ATR-SEIRAS) through dynamic tracking of the reaction intermediates.[43] Using a single-beam spectrum recorded at 1.25 V vs. RHE as a reference spectrum, three important intermediates were identified by real-time spectroelectrochemical measurements. The peak at 2050 cm <sup>1</sup> can be ascribed to the CO linear adsorption (COL). The peak at 1409 cm <sup>1</sup> corresponds to the O C O symmetric stretching vibration of acetate (CH3COOads), while the peak at 1630 cm <sup>1</sup> is associated with the C=O stretching vibration of the surface adsorption of acetyl group (CH3COads) (Figure 4a–e and Table S7).[44] The onset potential of CO formation in internal reflection mode

*Figure 4.* ATR-SEIRAS spectra recorded in 0.1 M HClO4+0.5 M ethanol solution. Potential-resolved spectra of (a) PtIrRhCoFeNiCu. (b) Enlarged spectra from 0.85 to 1.20 V in (a). Potential-resolved spectra of (c) PtIrRhCoCu, (d) PtIrRhCoFeCu, and (e) Pt/C. The variations of integrated intensities of (f) COL and (g) acetate (CH3COO ) with potentials for PtIrRhCoCu, PtIrRhCoFeCu, PtIrRhCoFeNiCu and commercial Pt/C. (h) The selectivity distribution of EOR products across the potential range for PtIrRhCoFeNiCu HEA NDs. (i) In situ Raman spectroscopy acquired in 0.1 M HClO4+0.5 M ethanol as the potential increases from 0.1 to 1.2 V vs. RHE. Each spectrum was collected over 60 s at the scanning rate of 0.5 mVs <sup>1</sup> .

*Angewandte*

can be used as an indicator of the ability of breaking C C bonds. At the starting potential of the reaction, high COL band signals are discernible on all three HEAs with PtIrRhCoFeNiCu exhibiting the highest intensity, revealing its notable selectivity toward C1 pathway.[45] As the applied potential moves higher, the COL band intensity diminishes and finally vanishes because CO is converted to CO2 in the C1 pathway. In contrast, the COL signal of commercial Pt/C is significantly weaker suggestive of negligible likelihood of C1 pathway throughout the detection range. In addition, the variation of COL band intensities based on the time-resolved spectra obtained from 6.78 to 230 s at a step of 10.12 s also confirms the conclusion derived from potential-resolved spectra wherein PtIrRhCoFeNiCu HEA NDs possess the characteristic of prominent CO formation and C1 selectivity (Figure S26).

Based on the peak integral methodology proposed by Weaver et al., the apparent C1/C2 selectivity with characteristic products were evaluated across the range of 0.10 V– 1.20 V.[46] Specifically, the PtIrRhCoFeNiCu is featured by the highest COL intensity which does not undergo marked decline until 0.90 V. This can presumably be explained as a result of the CO re-generation at high potentials via oxidation of carbonaceous fragments (CHx) formed by CH3COads splitting (Figure 4f and Figure S27). Surface ethanol molecules are rapidly dehydrogenated to adsorbed acetyl groups.[44,47] Note that CHx (~425 cm <sup>1</sup> ) does not have a visible infrared band herein because it is not located within the wavenumber range of surface detection (1000– 2300 cm <sup>1</sup> ). At very high potentials, CO still shows a downward trend indicative of CO!CO2 conversion. The presence of oxophilic elements (Ir, Rh, Ni) accelerates the formation of surface OHads by water dissociation at higher potentials. Therefore, the CO oxidation by OHad prevails over CHx!CO conversion.[48] As demonstrated in Figure 4g, the integrated intensities of CH3COOads, derived from CH3COad at 0.70 V, 0.65 V and 0.80 V for PtIrRhCoCu, PtIrRhCoFeCu and PtIrRhCoFeNiCu HEA NDs respectively, begin to increase significantly at potentials higher than 0.9 V. Most importantly, at high potentials of 1.10, 1.15 and 1.20 V vs. RHE, the CO selectivity of PtIrRhCoFeNiCu HEAs was 24.6%, 14.8% and 7.4%, respectively, higher than those of PtIrRhCoCu HEAs (22.8%, 12.0%, 5.8%) and PtIrRhCoFeCu (19.1%, 11.2%, 2.6%), confirming the remarkable EOR activity and selectivity of the septenary HEA catalyst (Figure 4h and Figure S28). The mechanistic illustration of dual pathways is presented in Scheme S1. The in situ Raman spectroscopy was performed to provide some insight into oxidation states and formation of intermediates during EOR process (Figure 4i). The potentials increase from open-circuit voltage (OCP) to 1.2 V vs. RHE at the step of 0.06 V. The strong peaks at 1330 cm <sup>1</sup> and 1594 cm <sup>1</sup> can be ascribed to D and G bands of carbon supports. The peaks at 510 cm <sup>1</sup> can be assigned to transition metal (Co/ Fe/Ni/Cu)-O vibrational modes in their hydroxyl ( OH) species. The intensities of these peaks increase from OCP to 0.34 V due to their adsorption affinity toward OH species, and become attenuated until 0.64 V. After 0.64 V, the peaks at 510 cm <sup>1</sup> almost vanish, substantiating that the metallic state of transition metals remains during EOR catalytic process. Moreover, the wide peak at 2044 cm <sup>1</sup> representative of CO species descends sharply from 0.7 V, suggesting stronger inclination of CO!CO2 conversion, in agreement with ATR-SEIRAS results.

Differential electrochemical mass spectrometry (DEMS) was also employed to monitor the in situ formation of volatile products on the Au electrode during the ethanol oxidation by PtIrRhCoFeNiCu HEA NDs (Figure 5a). Typical apparatus consists of a three-electrode electrochemical cell and mass spectrometer. The porous membrane separates electrolyte with vacuum system of mass spectrometer. Ethanol, acetaldehyde fragments and CO2 signals were recorded from 380 s (the moment to reach a steady mass spectrometric current) to 600 s (Figure 5b). As seen in Figure 5c, the ethanol oxidation Faraday current was generated at the beginning of the reaction. The signal of ethanol dissociation/oxidation detected at about 440 s corresponds to the EOR onset potential of 0.20 V vs. Ag/AgCl (Figure 5d). The consumption of ethanol (m/z=46) occurs almost concomitantly with CO2 formation (m/z=44), although there is a time hysteresis of ca. 18 s between their peaks. It demonstrates the scission of C C bond in ethanol molecules proceeds and reaches its highest point quickly during EOR process, which proves its fast CO oxidation kinetics and exceptional CO tolerance. Also, MS signals of m/z=29 (fragments of acetaldehyde) and m/z=44 (CO2) show similar variation trends.[49] That being said, the ratio of peak MS currents of C1 (featured by CO2) to C2 (featured by CH3CHO fragments) is 52.10%, higher than recent report, confirming C1 pathway is quite competitive especially at high potentials for EOR catalysis.[48]

Based on the aforementioned multiple characterizations, the enhanced EOR kinetics by PtIrRhCoFeNiCu HEA NDs can be summarized in Figure 5e. First, Pt is commonly considered as EOR catalyst with extraordinary ethanol dehydrogenative adsorption and intrinsic activity. Second, water as a polar molecule is prone to be strongly absorbed and occupy the catalytic active sites. Passivation by water is considered to be one of the main reasons for sluggish reaction kinetics.[50,51] Different from Pt with low inclination to adsorb water, Fe, Co, Ni and Cu favor water adsorption so as to alleviate water passivation, and boost water dissociation to promote OHads adsorption at lower potentials and CO oxidation.[52,53] Third, the Ir and Rh sites are beneficial in C C bond breaking of CH3COads. Coupling improved C C bond splitting with CO oxidation enables to attain more efficient C1 pathway over sluggish C2 pathway. Additionally, the open and porous character of PtIrRhCo-FeNiCu HEA NDs enable better mass transport and enhance EOR reaction kinetics.[54,55]

Density functional theory calculations were further conducted to reveal the origin of remarkable catalytic activity and selectvity. A vacuum thickness of 15 Å is added to eliminate interaction between periodic effects. The 4 layers of 4×4 supercell of compositional metal (111) surfaces were used to model each metal sites. For multi-component metal models, the specific atomic ratios are determined based on ICP test results; for instance, the chemical formula

*Figure 5.* (a) Schematic diagram for the DEMS setup. (b) Interfacial reaction between catalyst and probe. (c) Cyclic voltammetry of ethanol electrooxidation in 0.1 M HClO4+0.5 M ethanol electrolyte, scan rate: 5 mVs <sup>1</sup> . (d) Corresponding mass spectrometric signals at m/z=29, m/z=44, m/z=46 (380 s indicates the time to start detection). (e) Synergistic effect within PtIrRhCoFeNiCu HEA NDs for efficient C1-12e pathway.

is determined to be Pt16Ir8Rh16Co3Fe8Ni10Cu3 (Figure S29). The partial density of states (PDOS) of single metals and compositional metals in the HEA were investigated (Figure 6a and Figure S30). As illustrated in Figure 6b, compared to the seven single metals, sufficient *d-d* orbital couplings within the septenary HEA serve to elevate *d*-band center of each compositional metal, in line with VB-XPS results. The higher-lying d bands with more unoccupied *d* states are beneficial for ethanol adsorption and subsequent dehydrogenation. For C1 pathway catalysis, C C bond breaking is a key step. Since CH3CO intermediates were detected by ATR-SEIRAS, the CH3CO\*!CH3\*+CO\* conversion was considered in this work, with C O of CH3CO\* interacting with metal surfaces (Figure 6c and Figure S31–S33). Herein, to simplify the difference, the thermodynamic probability of CH3CO\*+OH\*! CH3COOH\* step was not considered. It turns out the kinetic energy barriers for single-metal Pt, Rh and Ir are 1.04, 0.92 and 0.32 eV, respectively (Figure 6d). Compared to Pt, Ir and Rh are more prone to facilitate bond cleavage. The septenary HEA possesses a remarkably reduced energy barrier of 0.25 eV, proving C C bond cleavage is more favorable on HEA surfaces. The fast CO oxidative desorption or removal requires OH\* generation from water dissociation. Herein, H2O is adsorbed on catalyst surface via metal-O bond by top configuration (Figure S34–S38). The

Figure 6. (a) PDOS of PtIrRhCoFeNiCu HEA. (b) The *d*-band centers of all metal sites within HEA and single-metal counterparts. (c) Adsorption configurations of CH<sub>3</sub>CO\* to CH<sub>3</sub>\*+CO\* on PtIrRhCoFeNiCu HEA surfaces. (d) Reaction energy barriers of CH<sub>3</sub>CO\* $\rightarrow$ CH<sub>3</sub>\*+CO\* oxidation on Pt, Ir, Rh and HEA surfaces. (e) Reaction energy barriers of H<sub>2</sub>O\* $\rightarrow$ H\*+OH\* oxidation on Co, Fe, Ni, Cu and HEA surfaces.

activation energy barrier of the HEA toward water dissociation is 0.72 eV, weakened relative to those of Co (0.85 eV), Fe (0.94 eV), Ni (0.88 eV) and Cu (1.05 eV) (Figure 6e). The synergistic effect among HEA elements contribute to C–C bond scission and CO oxidation. Similarly, quinary PtIrRhCoCu and senary PtIrRhCoFeCu HEA models were constructed in accordance with the ICP results (Figure S39). The key step toward C1 pathway, i.e. CH<sub>3</sub>CO\*→CH<sub>3</sub>\*+CO\*, was modelled to compare the selectivities of PtIrRhCoCu and PtIrRhCoFeCu HEAs (Figure S40–S42). The reaction energy barrier for PtIrRhCoCu (0.68 eV) is lower than for PtIrRhCoFeCu (0.82 eV). This partly explains the better activity and selectivity of PtIrRhCoCu relative to PtIrRhCoFeCu.

The facile approach for synthesizing Pt-based HEA nanodendrites can also be extended to more elemental combination. Herein, PtIrRhNiCu and PtIrRhCoNiCu also

show well-defined nanodendrite structures that satisfy mixed configurational entropy S of  $\geq 1.50R$  (Figure S43 and S44). The S is 1.50R for PtIrRhNiCu with Pt/Ir/Rh/Ni/Cu atomic ratio (ICP-OES) of 30.91/13.51/27.51/21.84/6.23; similarly, the S of PtIrRhCoNiCu with compositional ratio of 28.71/ 12.76/27.25/6.31/19.63/5.34 becomes 1.63R. The uniform elemental distributions across the whole portion of nanodendrites as manifested by STEM mappings and line scans, together with PXRD patterns (Figure S45) with fcc structure and positive peak position shift, suggest the formation of HEA nanostructure. The EOR catalytic performances were also evaluated by the same protocol (Figure S46-S48). The PtIrRhNiCu and PtIrRhCoNiCu HEA NDs exhibit mass activities of  $1.30~\mathrm{A\,mg_{Pt}}^{-1}/0.68~\mathrm{A\,mg_{Pt+Ir+Rh}}^{-1}$  and  $1.54~\mathrm{A\,mg_{Pt}}^{-1}/0.79~\mathrm{A\,mg_{Pt+Ir+Rh}}^{-1}$ , respectively. Moreover, chronoamperometric tests and accelerated durability tests were undertaken, and noticeably higher proportions of 1521375, 2025, 10, Downloaded from https://onlinelbrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202420752 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [08/0/12026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicable Creative Commons (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on the applicab

.

15213757, 2025, 10, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202420752 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [08/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

initital activities (53.08% and 51.56% for PtIrRhNiCu, 57.79% and 55.92% for PtIrRhCoNiCu) compared to Pt/C were retained. All results prove that Pt-based high-entropy alloys prepared via the general approach are highly promising for EOR catalysis.

#### *Conclusions*

In summary, a series of unconventional high-entropy alloy nanodendrites featured by high-index facets were designed and synthesized. In particular, PtIrRhCoFeNiCu HEA NDs show remarkable EOR mass activity of 2.13 AmgPt 1 / 1.05 AmgPt<sup>+</sup>Ir+Rh <sup>1</sup> and specific activity of 2.95 mAcm <sup>2</sup> Impressively, after the chronoamperometric test of up to 100,000s and 1500 potential cycles, the mass activity can still maintain 81.22% and 68.54% respectively. PtIrRhCoCu and PtIrRhCoFeCu HEA NDs also exhibit considerably enhanced EOR catalytic activity and stability. The local electronic and coordination analysis indicates that the local tensile strain arises due to lattice distortion in the three HEA NDs, which facilitates ethanol oxidation catalysis. The boosted EOR stability can be explained as a result of sluggish atomic diffusion due to lattice distortion in the HEA NDs. The ATR-SEIRAS coupled with in situ Raman characterization of the HEA NDs provides explicit evidence as to strong inclination of C1 pathway via C C bond scission and CO formation especially at high potentials. The synergy in PtIrRhCoFeNiCu among Pt with extraordinary intrinsic activity, Fe/Co/Ni/Cu being the source of OHads formation and Ir/Rh sites promoting C C bond breaking, enables to facilitate the 12e C1 pathway over sluggish C2 pathway. The rational design of new morphological structures of HEAs in this work presents a new line of thought and extension to more-component (octonary, denary, *etc.*) HEA NDs.

#### *Acknowledgements*

This work was financially supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China (22302119), Shanghai Youth Science and Technology Qiming Star (23YF1412300) and the Innovative research team of a high-level local university in Shanghai for their financial support. The authors acknowledge the valuable contribution by Hard X-ray Micro-Analysis Beamline, Canadian Light Source.

#### *Conflict of Interest*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### *Data Availability Statement*

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

**Keywords:** high-entropy alloy nanodendrites **·** electrocatalysis **·** ethanol oxidation reaction **·** stability **·** C1 pathway

- [1] Z. W. Seh, J. Kibsgaard, C. F. Dickens, I. Chorkendorff, J. K. Norskov, T. F. Jaramillo, *Science* **2017**, *355*, eaad4998.
- [2] N. Kakati, J. Maiti, S. H. Lee, S. H. Jee, B. Viswanathan, Y. S. Yoon, *Chem. Rev.* **2014**, *114*, [12397–12429](https://doi.org/10.1021/cr400389f).
- [3] Y. Cao, H. Fang, C. Guo, W. Sun, Y. Xu, Y. Wu, Y. Wang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202302143.
- [4] Y. Cao, Y. Sun, C. Guo, W. Sun, Y. Wu, Y. Xu, T. Liu, Y. Wang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, e202316208.
- [5] X. M. Lu, Y. Cao, Y. Sun, H. Wang, W. Sun, Y. Xu, Y. Wu, C. Yang, Y. Wang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, e202320259.
- [6] M. K. Debe, *[Nature](https://doi.org/10.1038/nature11115)* **2012**, *486*, 43–51.
- [7] H. F. Wang, Z. P. Liu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2008**, *130*, [10996–](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja801648h) [11004](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja801648h).
- [8] A. Chen, P. Holt-Hindle, *Chem. Rev.* **2010**, *110*, [3767–3804](https://doi.org/10.1021/cr9003902).
- [9] Q. Chang, S. Kattel, X. Li, Z. Liang, B. M. Tackett, S. R. Denny, P. Zhang, D. Su, J. G. Chen, Z. Chen, *ACS [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b02039)* **2019**, *9*, [7618–7625](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b02039).
- [10] Q. Chang, Y. Hong, H. J. Lee, J. H. Lee, D. Ologunagba, Z. Liang, J. Kim, M. J. Kim, J. W. Hong, L. Song, S. Kattel, Z. Chen, J. G. Chen, S. I. Choi, *Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA* **2022**, *119*, e2112109119.
- [11] V. Stamenkovic, B. S. Mun, K. J. J. Mayrhofer, P. N. Ross, N. M. Markovic, J. Rossmeisl, J. Greeley, J. K. Nørskov, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2006**, *118*, [2963–2967](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.200504386).
- [12] W. Zhang, Y. Yang, B. Huang, F. Lv, K. Wang, N. Li, M. Luo, Y. Chao, Y. Li, Y. Sun, Z. Xu, Y. Qin, W. Yang, J. Zhou, Y. Du, D. Su, S. Guo, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, e1805833.
- [13] Z. Liang, L. Song, S. Deng, Y. Zhu, E. Stavitski, R. R. Adzic, J. Chen, J. X. Wang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, [9629–9636.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b03474)
- [14] N. Erini, V. Beermann, M. Gocyla, M. Gliech, M. Heggen, R. E. Dunin-Borkowski, P. Strasser, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201702332) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, [6533–6538](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201702332).
- [15] H. D. Li, M. Z. Sun, Y. Pan, J. Xiong, S. H. Feng, Z. J. Li, J. P. Lai, B. L. Huang, L. Wang, *Appl. Catal. B* **2022**, *312*, [121431.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2022.121431)
- [16] W. Chen, S. Luo, M. Sun, X. Wu, Y. Zhou, Y. Liao, M. Tang, X. Fan, B. Huang, Z. Quan, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, e2206276.
- [17] C. Zhan, L. Bu, H. Sun, X. Huang, Z. Zhu, T. Yang, H. Ma, L. Li, Y. Wang, H. Geng, W. Wang, H. Zhu, C. W. Pao, Q. Shao, Z. Yang, W. Liu, Z. Xie, X. Huang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202213783.
- [18] X. Lao, X. Liao, C. Chen, J. Wang, L. Yang, Z. Li, J. W. Ma, A. Fu, H. Gao, P. Guo, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202304510.
- [19] Y. Xin, S. Li, Y. Qian, W. Zhu, H. Yuan, P. Jiang, R. Guo, L. Wang, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, [11280–11306.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c03617)
- [20] C. Tang, C. L. Lv, P. Chen, A. J. Wang, J. J. Feng, T. Yun Cheang, H. Xia, *[Bioelectrochemistry](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bioelechem.2024.108639)* **2024**, *157*, 108639.
- [21] S. Sun, X. Zhang, J. Cui, S. Liang, *[Nanoscale](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0NR03637D)* **2020**, *12*, 16657– [16677](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0NR03637D).
- [22] Z. Quan, Y. Wang, J. Fang, *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2013**, *46*, [191–202.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ar200293n)
- [23] Y. Y. Zhou, C. H. Liu, J. Liu, X. L. Cai, Y. Lu, H. Zhang, X. H. Sun, S. D. Wang, *[Nano-Micro](https://doi.org/10.1007/s40820-016-0096-2) Lett.* **2016**, *8*, 371–380.
- [24] X. Li, Y. Liu, J. Zhu, P. Tsiakaras, P. K. Shen, *J. [Colloid](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2021.09.060) Interface Sci.* **2022**, *607*, [1411–1423](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2021.09.060).
- [25] M. Weinert, R. E. Watson, *Phys. Rev. B* **1995**, *51*, [17168–17180.](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevB.51.17168)
- [26] M. Wakisaka, S. Mitsui, Y. Hirose, K. Kawashima, H. Uchida, M. Watanabe, *J. Phys. Chem. B* **2006**, *110*, [23489–23496](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp0653510).
- [27] J. H. Yang, X. J. Chen, X. F. Yang, J. Y. Ying, *Energy [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/c2ee22172a) Sci.* **2012**, *5*, [8976–8981.](https://doi.org/10.1039/c2ee22172a)
- [28] P. Strasser, S. Koh, T. Anniyev, J. Greeley, K. More, C. Yu, Z. Liu, S. Kaya, D. Nordlund, H. Ogasawara, M. F. Toney, A. Nilsson, *Nat. Chem.* **2010**, *2*, [454–460.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nchem.623)

- [29] T. Toda, H. Igarashi, H. Uchida, M. Watanabe, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2019**, *146*, 3750–3756.
- [30] G. Blyholder, *J. Phys. Chem.* **2002**, *68*, 2772–2777.
- [31] X. Huang, G. Yang, S. Li, H. Wang, Y. Cao, F. Peng, H. Yu, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2021.12.026) Energy Chem.* **2022**, *68*, [721–751.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2021.12.026)
- [32] K. N. Zhao, X. Li, D. Su, *Acta Phys.-Chim. Sin.* **2021**, *37*, 2009077.
- [33] Z. Wang, Q. Wu, W. Zhou, F. He, C. Yu, D. Lin, J. Wang, C. T. Liu, *Scri. Mater* **2019**, *162*, [468–471.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scriptamat.2018.12.022)
- [34] R. Chattot, T. Asset, P. Bordet, J. Drnec, L. Dubau, F. Maillard, *ACS Catal.* **2016**, *7*, 398–408.
- [35] L. Dubau, J. Nelayah, T. Asset, R. Chattot, F. Maillard, *[ACS](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.7b00410) Catal.* **2017**, *7*, [3072–3081](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.7b00410).
- [36] R. Chattot, O. Le Bacq, V. Beermann, S. Kuhl, J. Herranz, S. Henning, L. Kuhn, T. Asset, L. Guetaz, G. Renou, J. Drnec, P. Bordet, A. Pasturel, A. Eychmuller, T. J. Schmidt, P. Strasser, L. Dubau, F. Maillard, *Nat. Mater.* **2018**, *17*, [827–833.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41563-018-0133-2)
- [37] A. Kowal, M. Li, M. Shao, K. Sasaki, M. B. Vukmirovic, J. Zhang, N. S. Marinkovic, P. Liu, A. I. Frenkel, R. R. Adzic, *Nat. Mater.* **2009**, *8*, [325–330](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat2359).
- [38] G. Feng, F. Ning, J. Song, H. Shang, K. Zhang, Z. Ding, P. Gao, W. Chu, D. Xia, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2021**, *143*, [17117–](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c07643) [17127.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c07643)
- [39] J. Durst, M. Lopez-Haro, L. Dubau, M. Chatenet, Y. Soldo-Olivier, L. Guétaz, P. Bayle-Guillemaud, F. Maillard, *J. [Phys.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jz4025707) Chem. Lett.* **2014**, *5*, [434–439.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jz4025707)
- [40] J. Li, Z. Xi, Y. T. Pan, J. S. Spendelow, P. N. Duchesne, D. Su, Q. Li, C. Yu, Z. Yin, B. Shen, Y. S. Kim, P. Zhang, S. Sun, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b12829) Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, [2926–2932](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b12829).
- [41] H. Funke, A. C. Scheinost, M. Chukalina, *Phys. Rev. B* **2005**, *71*, 094110.
- [42] A. Amiri, R. Shahbazian-Yassar, *J. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0TA09578H) Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, [782–823.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0TA09578H)

- [43] M. H. Shao, R. R. Adzic, *Electro. Acta* **2005**, *50*, [2415–2422.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2004.10.063)
- [44] X.-Y. Ma, C. Ding, H. Li, K. Jiang, S. Duan, W.-B. Cai, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.0c02558) Phys. Chem. Lett.* **2020**, *11*, [8727–8734.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.0c02558)
- [45] Y. Wang, M. Zheng, Y. Li, C. Ye, J. Chen, J. Ye, Q. Zhang, J. Li, Z. Zhou, X. Z. Fu, J. Wang, S. G. Sun, D. Wang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202115735.
- [46] L.-W. H. Leung, S.-C. Chang, M. J. Weaver, *J. [Electroanal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/0022-0728(89)85078-8) Chem.* **1989**, *266*, [317–336.](https://doi.org/10.1016/0022-0728(89)85078-8)
- [47] Y.-Y. Yang, J. Ren, Q.-X. Li, Z.-Y. Zhou, S.-G. Sun, W.-B. Cai, *ACS Catal.* **2014**, *4*, [798–803.](https://doi.org/10.1021/cs401198t)
- [48] C. Zhu, B. Lan, R.-L. Wei, C.-N. Wang, Y.-Y. Yang, *[ACS](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b00138) Catal.* **2019**, *9*, [4046–4053.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.9b00138)
- [49] H. Wang, H. D. Abruna, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c13401) Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 6330– [6338](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c13401).
- [50] R. Zeng, Y. Yang, T. Shen, H. Wang, Y. Xiong, J. Zhu, D. Wang, H. D. Abruña, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *10*, 770–776.
- [51] J. Chang, G. Wang, C. Li, Y. He, Y. Zhu, W. Zhang, M. Sajid, A. Kara, M. Gu, Y. Yang, *Joule* **2023**, *7*, [587–602](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joule.2023.02.011).
- [52] S. H. Han, H. M. Liu, P. Chen, J. X. Jiang, Y. Chen, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*.
- [53] K. Wang, H. Du, R. Sriphathoorat, P. K. Shen, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, e1804074.
- [54] Z. N. Yu, Z. Zhang, Z. S. Lv, M. T. Liu, L. Zhang, A. J. Wang, L. Y. Jiang, J. J. Feng, *J. Colloid [Interface](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2018.04.050) Sci.* **2018**, *525*, 216– [224](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2018.04.050).
- [55] H.-Y. Chen, A.-J. Wang, L. Zhang, J.-J. Feng, *ACS [Appl.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.9b01366) Energ. Mater.* **2019**, *2*, [7886–7892](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaem.9b01366).

Manuscript received: October 25, 2024 Accepted manuscript online: December 23, 2024 Version of record online: February 7, 2025