---
source: Xie 等 - 2021 - Oxygen-rich PdSnCu nanocrystals with particle connection features as enhanced catalysts for ethanol.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 60.584s
generated: 2026-01-09T05:20:18.601414Z
---

## **PAPER**

# Oxygen-rich PdSnCu nanocrystals with particle connection features as enhanced catalysts for ethanol oxidation reaction

To cite this article: Jian Xie et al 2021 Nanotechnology 32 325704

View the [article online](https://doi.org/10.1088/1361-6528/abf8dc) for updates and enhancements.

# You may also like

- [The correlation of electrical conductivity](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2053-1591/aa55b7) [with the microstructure of Ge](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2053-1591/aa55b7)<sup>2</sup> [Sb](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2053-1591/aa55b7)<sup>2</sup> [Te](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2053-1591/aa55b7)[5](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2053-1591/aa55b7) [thin](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2053-1591/aa55b7) [films alloyed with Sn](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2053-1591/aa55b7) Qixun Yin and Leng Chen -
- [A quark nova in the wake of a core](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1674-4527/20/2/27)[collapse supernova: a unifying model for](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1674-4527/20/2/27) [long duration gamma-ray bursts and fast](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1674-4527/20/2/27) [radio bursts](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1674-4527/20/2/27) Rachid Ouyed, Denis Leahy and Nico Koning -
- [Fast-timing spectroscopy at ISOLDE](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1361-6471/aa8217) L M Fraile -

# Oxygen-rich PdSnCu nanocrystals with particle connection features as enhanced catalysts for ethanol oxidation reaction

Jian Xie, Hui Yang, Qizhi Dong\*0, Qian Qin, Chao Hu and Gang Yu

State Key Laboratory of Chemo/Biosensing and Chemometrics, College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Hunan University, Changsha 410082, People's Republic of China

E-mail: lili2sohu@hnu.edu.cn

Received 4 January 2021, revised 9 April 2021 Accepted for publication 16 April 2021 Published 17 May 2021

#### **Abstract**

Most electrocatalysts show a high mass and special activity during the ethanol oxidation reaction, but those still suffer from limited stability, finite renewable capability and poor antipoisoning durability. Furthermore, the reliable structure and appropriate composition of catalysts are fairly associated with the electrocatalysis performance. Herein, we report the development of trimetallic  $Pd_{61}Sn_{34}Cu_5$  nanocrystals (NCs) whose rough surfaces are rich in step atoms and coupled with abundant of  $SnO_x$  and CuO, which may effectively boost reaction activity and rapidly remove carbonaceous intermediate, respectively. Under the tuning on the composition, the defect rich  $Pd_{61}Sn_{34}Cu_5$  NCs exhibit elevated electrocatalysis activity and durability for ethanol oxidation reaction with an optimized mass activity (1.26 A  $mg_{Pd}^{-1}$ ) and specific activity (10.6 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), which is about 2.21 and 2.58 times greater than that of the commercial Pd/C catalyst (0.57 A  $mg_{Pd}^{-1}$  and 4.1 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>).

Supplementary material for this article is available online

Keywords: PdSnCu ternary alloy, particle connection features, oxygen enrichment metal, anti-poisoning, direct ethanol fuel cells

(Some figures may appear in colour only in the online journal)

## 1. Introduction

With the rise of nanomaterials, traditional materials and devices are continually being promoted in the direction of becoming smaller and smaller. With the deepening of nanotechnology development, materials on the nanoscale also show some unique characteristics, which are known as surface and boundary effect, small size effect, macroscopic quantum tunneling effect and so on. When individual nanoparticles fusion and connection with each other, the structure of defects (such as lattice dislocation sites, grain boundaries, corner and edge atoms) may be pre-existing within the nanocrystals [1]. However, defects on the surface of the nanomaterial are not entirely a bad thing. As shown in researches that defects could modify the electron density and

the electronic structure, effectually affect surface chemistry properties of catalysts, provide extra active sites and lead to further performance improvements, especially in the field of electrocatalysis [2–4].

Direct ethanol fuel cells (DEFCs) are a new generation of energy conversion devices based on electrocatalysis technology and have shown many strengths, such as high energy density (24 MJ L<sup>-1</sup>), widespread resources and environmental friendliness [5, 6]. However, the electrocatalysts of DEFCs still suffer from the problems of the carbonaceous intermediate poisoning and the high cost of metal catalysts. Palladium (Pd) has similar characteristics to platinum (Pt), so it also has been widely studied by scholars, aiming to develop different kinds of electrocatalysts for DEFCs. Additionally, the efficiency of ethanol oxidation reaction (EOR) has always been the key to DEFCs, which means improving the performance of electrocatalyst is the primary task. On the one hand,

<sup>\*</sup> Author to whom any correspondence should be addressed.

the specific morphology of single Pd catalyst containing a particular exposure surface structure has a significant influence on the EOR performance. It may be because high-index faces structure exposes abundant active sites, such as ledges, twisted and step atoms [7, 8]. In a typical study, Tian and coworkers developed a direct electrodeposition strategy to synthesize etrahexahedral Pd nanocrystals, which exhibited higher electrocatalytic performance than the conventional Pd black toward ethanol electrooxidation [9]. On the other hand, combining another metal with Pd to form an alloy structure is another strategy for preparing a new type of high electrocatalytic activity catalysts for EOR. This strategy not only reduces the number of precious metals, but the added metal also improves overall activity and stability of the catalysts [10–12]. The electrocatalytic activity improvement in these binary catalysts has been attributed mostly to the synergy between metals, known as a bifunctional mechanism [13]. At present, a substantial number of bimetallic Pd-based nanocrystals (NCs), such as Pd-Pt [14], Pd-Cu [15] and Pd-Au [16], had been successfully synthesized and exhibited promoted performance for the EOR. Surprisingly, it may be an excellent choice to substitute Pd with Cu partially, because it is not only inexpensive, but also highly conductive. What is more, the smaller Cu atoms may cause compressive strain on the surface of Pd [17]. Furthermore, additional active sites as well as electron transfer rate may be improved by the addition of Cu [18].

The service life of the catalyst is also a key parameter for extending the catalyst to the commercial purpose on an industrial scale, because the catalyst is susceptible to carbonaceous intermediate poisoning during continuous electrocatalysis. While relatively less attention has focused on the composite of oxygen enrichment metal (Sn [19, 20], Ru [21] and Ni [22, 23]) and Pd, it is well known that Sn effortlessly combines with oxygen and has various oxidation states, which is typical oxygen enrichment specie [20, 24–26]. Quite a few theoretical calculations and experiments indicate that the hydroxyl species are the key to the dehydrogenation of ethanol and the oxidation of toxic intermediates [27–30]. By the way, the formation of oxygen-containing substances is promoted by Sn through the dissociation of water [25, 31]. Bimetallic Pd-Sn nanochain-like materials show a typical bifunctional effect in EOR, in which Pd provides catalytic active sites, and Sn offers hydroxide adsorbing active sites to promote further oxidation of the carbonaceous intermediate. In our previous works, the triple junction structured of Pd-Sn-SnO<sub>x</sub>/TiC was successfully synthesized and exhibited significant enhancement toward formic acid oxidation. Experiments and periodic density functional theory calculations have proved that Sn and SnO<sub>x</sub> have a good capability to resist intermediate poisoning [32]. In addition, Zhu and coworkers synthesized ternary PdCuSn catalysts supported in CNTs via NaBH<sub>4</sub> reduction and used it for the electrooxidation of formic acid, methanol and ethanol. When the successive cyclic voltammetry test was performed in a 0.5 M H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> electrolyte, the leaching of Sn rarely occurred but the Cu was the opposite [33]. Therefore, it is desirable to achieve high EOR performance on the basis of alloying Pd, Cu and Sn.

Herein, we prepared unique Pd–Sn–Cu trimetallic NCs with particle connection features via a one-pot reduction strategy that contains grain boundaries and atomic steps in the rough surface. As a result, the as-obtained compositional-tunable and structure stable Pd–Sn–Cu NCs displayed excellent electrocatalytic performance, especially the Pd<sub>61</sub>Sn<sub>34</sub>Cu<sub>5</sub> NCs exhibited the highest mass and specific activities of 1.26 A mg $_{Pd}^{-1}$  and 10.6 mA cm $^{-2}$  for EOR, being 2.21 and 2.58 times higher than commercial Pd/C catalysts, respectively. Furthermore, the Pd<sub>61</sub>Sn<sub>34</sub>Cu<sub>5</sub> NCs revealed superior electrocatalytic stability for I–t endurance, EOR cycling stability and CO-stripping measurements, demonstrating an outstanding carbonaceous and CO<sub>ads</sub> intermediate anti-poisoning capability.

## 2. Experimental section

## 2.1. Materials

Palladium chloride (PdCl<sub>2</sub>, Pd > 59 wt%), copper sulfate pentahydrate (CuSO<sub>4</sub>·5H<sub>2</sub>O, 99%), tin chloride dehydrate (SnCl<sub>2</sub>·2H<sub>2</sub>O, 98%), L-ascorbic acid (AA, 99.7%), potassium hydroxide (KOH, 85%), hydrochloric acid (HCl, 37%) and ethanol (C<sub>2</sub>H<sub>5</sub>OH, 99.7%) were obtained from Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co. Ltd. (China). Hexadecyl trimethyl ammonium bromide (CTAB, 99%) and polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP, Mw = 290 00) were supplied by Sigma-Aldrich, respectively. Nafion solution (5 wt%) was supplied by Dupont. Commercial Pd/C (Pd, 10 wt%) was purchased from Energy Chemical Co. Ltd. (China). All chemicals were used as received without any purification. Purified water (18.2 MΩ·cm) was used in this entire works.

Prepare H<sub>2</sub>PdCl<sub>4</sub> solution (22.6 mmol l<sup>-1</sup>): 1 g of PdCl<sub>2</sub> was dissolved in a brown reagent bottle containing 250 ml of HCl aqueous solution (45.2 mmol l<sup>-1</sup>), and then the bottle was held static at 45 °C for 3.5 h to accelerate dissolution.

## 2.2. Synthesis of Pd-Sn-Cu NCs

The following was a one-step reduction process to synthesize Pd<sub>61</sub>Sn<sub>34</sub>Cu<sub>5</sub> NCs. Briefly, 0.1 mmol of PVP, 0.1 mmol of CTAB, 0.036 mmol of SnCl<sub>2</sub> · 2H<sub>2</sub>O and 17 ml of water were placed in a 50 ml beaker and kept stirring at 30 °C to accelerate dissolution. Then, 1 ml of CuSO<sub>4</sub> · 5H<sub>2</sub>O  $(9.04 \text{ mmol } 1^{-1})$  and 2 ml of H<sub>2</sub>PdCl<sub>4</sub> (22.6 mmol  $1^{-1}$ ) were added to the solution successively. The colour of the solution changed from bright yellow to light brown. 50 mg of AA as reductant was added to the above solution under ultrasonic dispersion for 5 min Subsequently, the above mixture was held static in a water bath at 40 °C for 48 h. Then natural products were accumulated via centrifugation (13000 rpm) for 8 min and washed with water at 40 °C and ethanol solution (the volume ratio of absolute alcohol to water at 40 °C was 1:3) several times until the excess surfactants was removed and redispersed into ethanol for further use. For the synthesis of Pd–Sn–Cu with different chemical compositions, all the conditions were similar to those of  $Pd_{61}Sn_{34}Cu_5$  except for changing the amount of  $SnCl_2 \cdot 2H_2O$  and  $CuSO_4 \cdot 5H_2O$ . The elemental ratio of all the as-synthesized samples was conducted by ICP-OES. The feeding ratio, SEM-EDS and ICP-OES results were summarized in figure S1 and table S1 (available online at stacks.iop.org/NANO/32/325704/mmedia).

# 2.3. Physical characterizations of the synthesized Pd-Sn-Cu NCs

The morphology, nanostructure, surface and interior elemental composition state of the Pd-Sn-Cu NCs were characterized by the following instruments. Transmission electron microscope (TEM) (JEM 2100 Plus, Japan) was obtained to observe the morphology and to determine the size of the Pd-Sn-Cu NCs. High-resolution transmission electron microscope (HRTEM) (FEI Tecnai G2 F20 STWIN, USA) equipped with energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) was used to observe the detailed morphology of each NCs and to survey element distribution. Scanning electron microscope energy spectrometer (SEM-EDS) (TESCAN MIRA3, Czech Republic) and inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES) (AviO500 Perkin Elmer, USA) were used to detect element content. The crystal structure of the NCs was acquired by Powder x-ray diffraction (XRD) (Bruker D8 Advance, Germany) under Cu Ka irradiation at 40 mA and 40 kV. In addition, MDI Jade 6 was used to analyze the XRD results, and the Savitzky-Golay method was used to smooth the peak (111) in the range of  $38.5-41.5^{\circ}$ . X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) using an RBD upgraded PHI-5000C ESCA system (Perkin Elmer, USA) with Al K $\alpha$  radiation (hn1/41486.6 eV). The XPS spectra were calibrated by the C 1 s peak.

# 2.4. Electrochemical measurements of the synthesized Pd-Sn-Cu NCs

All the electrochemical measurements were controlled by IGS-4030 (Ingsens Sensor Technology Co. Ltd. China) electrochemical testing system at 25 °C. The catalysts-modified glassy carbon electrode (GCE, geometric area 0.196 cm<sup>2</sup>) was conducted as the working electrode. The reference and counter electrodes were a saturated calomel electrode (SCE)  $(E_0 = 0.224 \text{ V versus RHE})$  and a polished platinum mesh (1 cm<sup>2</sup>), respectively. The GCE was polished with Al<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub> slurries powder  $(0.3 \,\mu\text{m})$ , sonicated in acetone and rinsed with water before use. To prepare the catalysts-modified GCE, 2 mg of catalyst powders were dispersed in ethanol solution (0.5 ml absolute ethanol + 0.5 ml of water) and vigorously sonicated for 35 min to form a uniform ink (replace the water in the ultrasonic instrument if the temperature of water rises too high). Promptly, 10 µl of the as-prepared ink was drop cast onto the GCE and dried naturally. Finally, the catalyst was firmly covered with 3 µl of Nafion and dried naturally.

In order to acquire a pure electrocatalyst surface, the catalysts-modified GCE was activated in 1 M KOH by

cyclic voltammetry (CV) cycling from −0.8 V to 0.2 V at 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup> to obtain a relatively steady cyclic voltammogram. The test parameters of EOR were the same as the activated tests described above, except for the addition of 1 M ethanol to 1 M KOH solution. The durable performance towards EOR for each catalyst was tested by chronoamperometry (CA) measurements at -0.35 V in a 1 M KOH containing 1 M ethanol solution for a period of 3600 s. Electrochemical impedance spectra (EIS) measurements were executed at −0.35 V in a 1 M KOH containing 1 M ethanol solution and the frequency range from 100000 to 0.1 Hz at 5 mV amplitude. All solutions used in CV, CA and EIS tests were purged with N<sub>2</sub> before electrochemical measurements. For the CO stripping voltammetry measurements, the working electrode was firstly plunged into 1 M KOH solution and bubbled with CO at -0.8 V for  $20 \, \text{min}$ , during which CO monolayer adsorption was formed on the surface of Pd. Then, the superfluous dissolved CO in the solution was bubbled into N<sub>2</sub> for 25 min to expel. Finally, two consecutive CV cycles were performed in  $-0.8 \sim 0.2 \text{ V}$  at 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. All potential values in this article versus SCE.

## 3. Results and discussion

#### 3.1. Structure characterizations

Powder XRD analysis can characterize the variations of crystal phases and structural features of the obtained samples. The diffraction peaks naturally arise at ca. 39.8, 46.4, and 68.3°, which are attributed to the (111), (200), and (220) planes of face-centered cubic (fcc) Pd (JCPDS card No. 87-0645) as presented in figure 1(a). Additional diffraction peaks for monometallic Sn, Cu and bimetallic impurity peaks were not observed. In general, the characteristic peaks of binary PdSn alloy tend to locate at lower 2θ angles compared to standard pure Pd, which is due to the lattice expansion by the addition of Sn [34–36]. In this work, the XRD patterns showed that the trimetallic Pd-Sn-Cu characteristic peaks shifted slightly forward when Cu was further introduced (figures 1(a) and (b)). In addition, the further enlarged figures of peak (111) in the range of  $38.5 - 41.5^{\circ}$  were shown in figure S7. It may be due to the atomic radius value follows the order Sn (1.58 Å) > Pd (1.37 Å) > Cu (1.28 Å) and Cu with small atomic radius could gradually counteract the lattice expansion according to Vegard's law [37]. What is more, the (111) facets spacing and the lattice parameters were calculated and listed in table 1. It could be clearly found that the lattice parameter gradually decreased with the increasing addition of Cu, which also suggested the decrease of lattice expansion.

The corresponding high-resolution XPS spectra of  $Pd_{61}Sn_{34}Cu_5$  NCs after fitting are shown in figures 2(a)-(d). The O 1 s spectrum (figure 2(a)) was fitted with three peaks at 529.8 eV ( $O_a$ , lattice oxygen), 531.3 eV ( $O_b$ ,  $O^-$ ,  $O_2^-$ ,  $O_2^{2-}$ ), and 532.6 eV ( $O_c$ , hydroxyl) [38–40]. The Cu 2p spectrum (figure 2(b)) contained the double peaks for  $2p_{3/2}$  and  $2p_{1/2}$  with the binding energy of 931.38 and 951.66 eV,

<span id="page-4-0"></span>Figure 1. (a) XRD patterns of (1)  $Pd_{61}Sn_{34}Cu_5$ , (2)  $Pd_{65}Sn_{26}Cu_9$ , (3)  $Pd_{70}Sn_{18}Cu_{12}$  and (4)  $Pd_{72}Sn_9Cu_{19}$  NCs, respectively. (b) The enlarged peak (111) in the range of 35.0–45.0°, the dotted line represents the Pd peak (111) position (JCPDS card No. 87-0645).

**Table 1.** XRD information of as-synthesized Pd-Sn-Cu NCs.

| samples                                           | (111) 2θ<br>(°) | d(111)<br>spacing<br>(Å) | Lattice<br>parameter<br>(Å) |
|---------------------------------------------------|-----------------|--------------------------|-----------------------------|
| Pd (PDF87-0645)                                   | 40.365          | 2.2326                   | 3.867                       |
| $Pd_{61}Sn_{34}Cu_{5}$                            | 39.852          | 2.2941                   | 3.902                       |
| Pd <sub>65</sub> Sn <sub>26</sub> Cu <sub>9</sub> | 40.101          | 2.2652                   | 3.881                       |
| $Pd_{70}Sn_{18}Cu_{12}$                           | 40.369          | 2.2413                   | 3.869                       |
| $Pd_{72}Sn_9Cu_{19}$                              | 40.409          | 2.2217                   | 3.847                       |

respectively, which was assigned to Cu(0). While the other two peaks at 934.70 and 954.50 eV indicated existence of a small part of Cu(II) species, for example CuO. Figure 2(c) shows the Sn 3d spectrum, which was deconvoluted into two small peaks (484.69 and 493.11 eV) and two prominent peaks (486.81 and 495.22 eV) attributed to 13.3% Sn(0) and 86.7% Sn(II/IV), respectively, suggesting oxygen-rich surface. From figure 2(d), Pd 3d spectrum also was deconvoluted into two peaks, which belonged to 69.8% Pd(0) and 39.2% Pd(II), signifying less PdO but metallic Pd rich, hinting that most of Pd(II) in the precursor was reduced to Pd(0). The above XPS result indicated that there were abundant oxides on the surface of Pd<sub>61</sub>Sn<sub>34</sub>Cu<sub>5</sub> NCs. What is more, the binding energies of Pd(0) (334.89 eV for 3d5 and 340.17 eV for 3d3) showed a slightly negative movement compared to previously reported values for bulk metallic Pd (335.08 eV for Pd 3d5 and 340.40 eV for Pd 3d3). As for  $Pd_{61}Sn_{34}Cu_5$ NCs which the binding energies of Pd and Cu negative moved while SnO<sub>x</sub> was opposite, so that the electronic structure of these metals was easily tuned and their properties were well adjusted. Additionally, the shift of binding energy for Pd, Sn and Cu was also an obvious signal of alloying from many previous reports [24], which were consistent with XRD analysis.

For the purpose of further observing the micromorphology of the as-prepared materials, TEM was used to conduct and reveal those properties. TEM images at low magnification of as-prepared Pd<sub>61</sub>Sn<sub>34</sub>Cu<sub>5</sub> NCs are shown in figures 3(a) and (b). The as-prepared materials were formed by assembling small particles (ca. 5  $\pm$  0.5 nm) to form onedimensional nanochain-like structures, and this unique particle connection feature might advance the stability of the material against aggregation during EOR. The concentric rings observed in selected area electron diffraction pattern were consisted of diffraction spots, hinting the polycrystalline and fcc structure of Pd, which further confirmed the excellent crystallinity of the Pd<sub>61</sub>Sn<sub>34</sub>Cu<sub>5</sub> NCs (inset in figure 3(a)). With the changes of composition, only the difference of dispersion degree appeared, while no apparent changes were observed from the overall morphology of the material as shown in figure S2.

HRTEM images can exhibit more detailed structures. From figures 3(c) and (d), most of the lattice spacing of approximately 0.236 and 0.218 nm was measured and this kind of lattice fringes was ascribed to (111) and (200) facets of Pd alloy structure. Compared to pure Pd crystal (0.232 nm for (111) and 0.193 nm for (200)), the phenomenon of lattice expansion was surveyed from Pd<sub>61</sub>Sn<sub>34</sub>Cu<sub>5</sub> NCs, which was caused by the entry of larger Sn atoms into the Pd lattice, though it was still mixed with a small amount of smaller Cu atoms. Moreover, lattice expansion also suggested alloy formation, which was in line with XRD and XPS analysis. When these small particles were assembled by lattice-mismatched attachment and fusion, they would lead to the formation of grain boundaries (red arrow in figures 3(c) and (d)), but those boundaries appeared to be less crystalline. Lattice dislocation sites, whose atoms are misplaced in their regular position, were also detected which may be attributed to the internal stress concentration, as indicated by the red dot lines from figure 3(e). Along with grain boundaries and dislocation sites,

<span id="page-5-0"></span>Figure 2. XPS spectra of Pd61Sn34Cu5 NCs: (a) O 1 s, (b) Cu 2p, (c) Sn 3d and (d) Pd 3d.

surface defects such as corner and edge atoms were also detected, as pointed via the green arrows in figure [3](#page-6-0)(e). Fast fourier transform (FFT) diffraction pattern was also performed corner and edge atoms, which were dominated by (311) and (220) facets, as shown in figure [3](#page-6-0)(f). All these defects could significantly affect the electronic structure, provide extra active sites for the electrocatalytic process, improve electrical conductivity and significantly boost the electrocatalytic activity and stability [[3,](#page-11-0) [41](#page-11-0)–[43](#page-11-0)].

A elemental mapping images further distinctly bring insight into the nature of Pd61Sn34Cu5 NCs as exhibited in figure [4.](#page-7-0) Compared with the Sn element, the distribution of the Cu and Pd elements showed similar shapes. Notably, the O element was also detected and well distributed on the surface of the material, suggesting an oxygen-rich surface. The distribution of the O element seemed to match the distribution of the Sn, not with the Pd or Cu, which might indicate that most of the O element belongs to SnOx. Considering highly crystalized grains, less crystalized boundaries and the distribution of the elements, the Pd61Sn34Cu5 NCs might have element separation. It is possible that the separation of Sn and SnOx exists in an amorphous state, so their characteristic peaks are not detected by XRD. However, because it is semi-crystalline or amorphous, and the wide and clear SnO2 lattice fringes cannot be observed by HRTEM as reported by Du et al and Li et al [[44](#page-11-0), [45](#page-11-0)]. This might suggest that Pd61Sn34Cu5 NCs were only partially alloyed.

## 3.2. Electrochemical measurements

After the electrode surface cleaned procedure, the relatively steady CV curves were obtained, suggesting atoms in the surface layers have been stabilized. Figure [5](#page-8-0)(a) and S5 show the normalized CV curves of the as-prepared materials and Pd/C in a 1 M KOH solution at 50 mV s−<sup>1</sup> . Two main distinct regions were observed for all material electrodes. Briefly, one was ascribed to the hydrogen adsorption/ desorption (Hads/Hdsp) regions and the other was attributed to the oxidation and reduction of metals. The current peaks from −0.8 V to −0.6 V for all the electrodes indicated the electrochemical Hdsp regions during forward scan [[46](#page-11-0)]. The electric double layer region of commercial Pd/C displayed apparent broadening, due to the fact that carbon support provided a large geometric area. As the scanning potential moved forward, Pd on the surface was gradually oxidized to

<span id="page-6-0"></span>Figure 3. (a, b) Typical TEM images with different magnifications of the as-prepared Pd61Sn34Cu5 NCs (Insets in (a) is the SAED pattern). (c)−(e) HRTEM images of the as-prepared Pd61Sn34Cu5 NCs and (f) the corresponding FFT pattern of white dotted boxes in (e).

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 4.** (a) HAADF-STEM image of Pd<sub>61</sub>Sn<sub>34</sub>Cu<sub>5</sub> NCs and (b)–(f) the corresponding elemental mapping images of Pd, Sn, Cu and O elements.

PdO, and the peak potential was located at ca 0.2 V or even higher. The onset oxidation potentials of the as-prepared Pd-Sn-Cu materials were more negative than that of commercial Pd/C, hinting the strong oxophilicity of Sn (major) and Cu (minor) supply oxygen-containing species to affect the formation of PdO [46, 47]. Finally, whether the Pd on the surfaces was in Pd-OH or PdO state, it would eventually be reduced to Pd at about -0.25 V during the backward scan. Besides, compared to commercial Pd/C, the reduction peak potentials of all the Pd-Sn-Cu catalysts with different ratios had a certain positive shift, suggesting oxygen-containing species were more rapidly desorbed from the surface of Pd and renewed the active sites [48, 49]. It had formerly been reported that the electrochemical active surface area (ECSA) of each catalyst was a significant parameter to evaluate the performance of the catalyst (like the number of available active sites and entire surface area). The ECSA of the asprepared materials could be evaluated by the coulombic charge associated with reduction of PdO from the CV curve in 1 M KOH, according to equation (1) [50, 51].

$$ECSA = \frac{Q}{0.405 \times m_{Pd}},\tag{1}$$

where Q (mC) was calculated by integration of the area of the CV reduction peak, the 0.405 (mC cm $^{-2}$ ) constant was the charge required to reduce PdO,  $m_{Pd}$  (mg) was the weight of Pd loaded on the glassy carbon electrode. The ECSA values of each catalyst was calculated and listed in table 2. This result showed the Pd $_{61}$ Sn $_{34}$ Cu $_{5}$  NCs displayed the more excellent ECSA value, which might be attributed to efficient atom utilization and rough surface areas of unique particle connection structures, suggesting a tremendous electrocatalytic performance toward EOR.

After replacing the 1 M KOH solution with the mixed electrolyte (1 M ethanol + 1 M KOH), EOR was started and all the curves were transformed dramatically as shown in figure 5(b) and S6. The H<sub>ads</sub>/H<sub>dsp</sub> peaks disappeared in the presence of the mixed solution, because the addition of ethanol became the main adsorbate and inhibited the adsorption of hydrogen. Then, the ethanol oxidation rate was rapidly upgraded when the scan moves forward to -0.5 V, it might due to OH<sup>-</sup> adsorption and oxidation of ethanol [52]. The reverse scanning peak was corresponding to oxidation of carbonaceous species which incompletely oxidized adsorbing on catalysts surface in the forward scan and fresh ethanol was readsorbed in the recovered Pd active sites [53]. Generally, a higher peak current intuitively reflects the higher electrocatalytic performance of the catalyst. The Pd<sub>61</sub>Sn<sub>34</sub>Cu<sub>5</sub> NCs exhibited a great performance toward EOR and the mass/ specific activity was 1.26 A  $mg_{pd}^{-1}$  and 10.6 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively, which were about 2.21 and 2.58 times bigger than that of the commercial Pd/C catalyst (0.57 A  $mg_{Pd}^{-1}$  for mass activity and 4.1 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for specific activity). The mass/specific activity of the rest catalysts was also calculated and shown in figure 5(c). What cannot be ignored was that the Pd<sub>72</sub>Sn<sub>9</sub>Cu<sub>19</sub> NCs also showed a fine activity (1.02 A mg<sub>Pd</sub><sup>-1</sup> and 11.1 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) toward EOR, which might due to the compressive surface strain and excellent electronic conductivity with the addition of large amounts of small radius Cu and it had been reported before [54–56]. It is worth noting that a high  $I_f/I_h$  ratio suggests an effective direct oxidation pathway of EOR during the anodic scan and a relatively short amount of carbonaceous residues is accumulated on the active sites of the catalyst surface [46, 57]. The  $I_f/I_b$ ratio was also listed in table 2 and the following order:  $Pd_{61}Sn_{34}Cu_5 > Pd_{72}Sn_9Cu_{19} > Pd_{65}Sn_{26}Cu_9 > Pd_{70}Sn_{18}C$  $u_{12} > Pd/C$ . Additionally, the onset potential of each catalyst

<span id="page-8-0"></span>Figure 5. CV curves of commercial Pd/C, Pd61Sn34Cu5, Pd65Sn26Cu9, Pd70Sn18Cu12 and Pd72Sn9Cu19 NCs at a scan rate of 50 mV s−<sup>1</sup> in (a) 1 M KOH solution and in (b) 1 M KOH + 1 M ethanol solution. (c) The corresponding histograms of mass activities and specific activities of these catalysts toward EOR. (d) Chronoamperometric responses of different catalysts at −0.35 V (versus SCE) for 3600 s in 1 M KOH + 1 M ethanol solution. Changes in the electroxidation forward peak (e) and backward peak (f) residual current density percentage on different catalysts during the 500 cycles.

for EOR had been found and listed in table [2,](#page-9-0) suggesting that Pd61Sn34Cu5 is intrinsically more active. The reasons for the excellent performance toward EOR of Pd61Sn34Cu5 NCs may be ascribed to the following areas. (1). A rough surface of particle connection structures could provide an abundance of adsorption and catalytic active sites. (2). The defects within the surface are high energy, which might have high catalytic and electron conduction efficiency for EOR [[42](#page-11-0), [58,](#page-11-0) [59](#page-11-0)]. (3). Lattice expansion in the step-rich surface may lead to a decrease of the binding strength with carbonaceous species intermediates, especially COads [[60](#page-11-0)]. (4). SnOx might promote the oxidation of COads intermediates and renew the active sites of poisoned Pd [[61](#page-12-0)]. (5). The defects and the addition of Cu tremendously enhance electrical conductivity.

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**Table 2.** Electrochemical measurement informations of assynthesized Pd-Sn-Cu NCs and commercial Pd/C.

| Catalyst                | ECSA<br>m <sup>2</sup> g <sup>-1</sup> | $\begin{array}{c} E_p \\ V \end{array}$ | $\begin{array}{c} J_p \\ A \ mg^{-1} \end{array}$ | $I_{ m f}/I_{ m b}$ $-$ | E <sub>onset</sub><br>V |
|-------------------------|----------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|-------------------------|-------------------------|
| Pd/C                    | 13.9                                   | -0.14                                   | 0.57                                              | 0.61                    | -0.58                   |
| $Pd_{61}Sn_{34}Cu_{5}$  | 11.9                                   | -0.15                                   | 1.26                                              | 0.88                    | -0.63                   |
| $Pd_{65}Sn_{26}Cu_9$    | 9.9                                    | -0.11                                   | 0.95                                              | 0.68                    | -0.58                   |
| $Pd_{70}Sn_{18}Cu_{12}$ | 8.5                                    | -0.16                                   | 0.78                                              | 0.64                    | -0.61                   |
| $Pd_{72}Sn_9Cu_{19}$    | 9.1                                    | -0.15                                   | 1.02                                              | 0.69                    | -0.62                   |

Tolerance performance is also the critical factor affecting the advancement and promotion of EOR electrocatalysts. Hence, EOR cycling stability tests were performed. In EOR cycling stability tests, all the electrocatalysts were assessed by continuously running 500 CV cycles in  $-0.8 \sim 0.2 \text{ V}$  at 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup> in a 1 M KOH containing 1 M ethanol solution, and the peak current density during forward/backward scanning was recorded regularly (Figure S3). The relationship between the number of CV cycle numbers and the specific current was shown in figures 5(e) and (f). In addition, it is needed to know that less than 2.5% of ethanol is directly oxidized to CO<sub>2</sub>, while most of them are indirectly oxidized to carbonaceous intermediates [62, 63], and the secondary pathway will produce a large number of carbonaceous intermediates, which may poison the active sites of the catalyst. After 500 CV cycles, the J<sub>f</sub> of all catalysts decreased in varying degrees, in which Pd/C, Pd<sub>61</sub>Sn<sub>34</sub>Cu<sub>5</sub>, Pd<sub>65</sub>Sn<sub>26</sub>Cu<sub>9</sub>, Pd<sub>70</sub>Sn<sub>18</sub>Cu<sub>12</sub> and Pd<sub>72</sub>Sn<sub>9</sub>Cu<sub>19</sub> decreased to 61, 79, 75, 69 and 73%, respectively, meaning that catalytic activity and stability of Pd<sub>61</sub>Sn<sub>34</sub>Cu<sub>5</sub> NCs were significantly higher than commercial Pd/C and the other synthesized samples. Moreover, intense and stable J<sub>b</sub> indicated that catalysts had strong oxidation capability to the toxic intermediate adsorbed on the surface, thus effectively contacting the poisoning state. After 500 CV cycles, the J<sub>b</sub> of Pd/C dropped sharply and only maintained 43% of the initial value, while the as-prepared Pd-Sn-Cu NCs were maintained above 70%, indicating the outstanding anti-poisoning ability, especially the Pd<sub>61</sub>Sn<sub>34</sub>Cu<sub>5</sub> NCs. Subsequent CO-striping experiments also confirmed this phenomenon. However, after 500 EOR cycles, the mass activity of all samples decreased to varying degrees, which was not only due to the poisoning intermediates occupying Pd active sites, but also due to the dissolution of catalyst metal (most likely Sn and Cu) or the agglomeration of catalyst particles [64, 65].

The chronoamperometric stability test is more intuitive, as it stimulates the degradation of electrocatalyst performance in a continuous operating environment and the 3600 s durability tests result is shown in figure 5(d). All the electrocatalysts showed a similar trend, which dropped rapidly in the first 300 s but levelled off smoothly and reached a pseudosteady state after that. Since the different numbers of catalytic active centers were exposed on the electrocatalyst, the initial specific current was different [66]. However, it was difficult to oxidize ethanol to CO<sub>2</sub> directly, and then a large number of intermediate toxic species were produced due to inadequate

oxidation reaction, which may poison a part of electrocatalysts and resulted in a fast activity loss. Obviously, different catalysts have different capabilities to resist the poisoning intermediates. Whereas Pd<sub>61</sub>Sn<sub>34</sub>Cu<sub>5</sub> NCs retained the highest current density of 153 mA mg<sub>pd</sub><sup>-1</sup> (25% maintained) after 3600 s electrocatalysis, but Pd/C was 14 mA mg<sub>pd</sub><sup>-1</sup> only (5% maintained), which may be owed to the adsorption of OH<sub>ads</sub> on the surface of Sn. OH<sub>ads</sub> could effectively accelerate the oxidation of carbonaceous intermediates and alleviate the poisoning degree of electrocatalysis [67]. The addition of Cu optimizes the overall electronic structure of electrocatalysis and probably weakened the binding between Pd and the toxic intermediates. By the way, grain boundaries in the material might also enhance electrocatalytic stability [42, 59]. This result was well consistent with EOR cycling stability tests.

For the purpose of comprehending the high EOR stability and high chronoamperometry remaining current of the asprepared NCs, the CO-stripping experiments were utilized for evaluating CO<sub>ads</sub> anti-poisoning capability of the obtained catalysts (Figure S4). In the first cycle, all catalysts showed a narrow peak in  $-0.18 \sim -0.08$  V during the forward scanning process, which corresponded to the oxidation of the CO<sub>ads</sub> intermediate on the catalyst surface, indicating that all the materials had excellent CO<sub>ads</sub> intermediates oxidation property and outstanding anti CO<sub>ads</sub> poisoning capability [68]. It is worth noting that the Pd-Sn-Cu began to show a weak current change in the potential range of  $-0.4^{\circ} \sim -0.3$ V, while Pd/C was in  $-0.15 \sim -0.25$  V, which is called the pre-ignition zone of CO oxidation in alkaline medium [69, 70]. In the second cycle, the hydrogen adsorption areas reappeared, while the sharp peak disappeared. This result implied that the monolayer adsorption of CO<sub>ads</sub> intermediates on the catalyst surface was almost wholly oxidized and might exist in KOH solution in the form of  $CO_3^{2-}$ . However, different catalysts showed different onset potential and peak potential, and the lower CO<sub>ads</sub> oxidation potentials generally reflect the better CO<sub>ads</sub> intermediates detachment capability. The peak potentials of CO oxidation on all the as-prepared catalysts shifted to lower potential range compared to commercial Pd/C from figure 6, meaning that the as-prepared catalysts had excellent capability to resist CO<sub>ads</sub> poisoning. Furthermore, the Pd<sub>61</sub>Sn<sub>34</sub>Cu<sub>5</sub> NCs showed the most excellent performance, whose peak potential was shifted 0.11 V in the negative direction compared to the potential observed for commercial Pd/C, which may be arisen from the downshift of the Pd d-band center. In addition, the alloyed oxophilic Sn together with Cu located near Pd site could effectively accelerate CO<sub>ads</sub> oxidation when the surface of Pd was occupied by CO<sub>ads</sub>, due to Sn and SnO<sub>x</sub> might provide abundant of OHads and Cu might weaken COads bond [32, 67, 71]. Last but not the least, there were two general relations between surface OH and COads oxidation, known as Langmuir-Hinshelwood (L-H) mechanism and Elev-Rideal (E-R) mechanism. Based on L-H mechanism, Spendelow et al have been reported that CO and OH<sup>-</sup> have competitive adsorption on the Pd site and a small part of OH<sup>-</sup> which adsorbed at defects in Pt(111) in alkaline solutions

<span id="page-10-0"></span>**Figure 6.** CO-stripping measurements of commercial Pd/C,  $Pd_{61}Sn_{34}Cu_5$ ,  $Pd_{65}Sn_{26}Cu_9$ ,  $Pd_{70}Sn_{18}Cu_{12}$  and  $Pd_{72}Sn_9Cu_{19}$  NCs in 1 M KOH solution at a scan rate of 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup>.

**Figure 7.** Nyquist plots of commercial Pd/C, Pd<sub>61</sub>Sn<sub>34</sub>Cu<sub>5</sub>, Pd<sub>65</sub>Sn<sub>26</sub>Cu<sub>9</sub>, Pd<sub>70</sub>Sn<sub>18</sub>Cu<sub>12</sub> and Pd<sub>72</sub>Sn<sub>9</sub>Cu<sub>19</sub> NCs in 1 M KOH + 1 M ethanol solution at -0.35 V (versus SCE).

could act as the oxidant to react with CO<sub>ads</sub> in low potential region [72]. In addition, a large amount of non-adsorbed OH<sup>-</sup> in the 1 M KOH solution was conducive to the oxidation of the CO<sub>ads</sub> through E–R mechanism [72, 73]. CO-stripping experiment is also a typical heterogeneous electrocatalytic reaction, because the initial adsorption potential of OH<sup>-</sup> on Pd–Sn–Cu catalyst was more negative than commercial Pd/C in the CVs of 1 M KOH, suggesting that the coverage of OH<sup>-</sup> on the Pd–Sn–Cu catalyst surface was greater than commercial Pd/C, which was more conducive to the oxidation of CO [70].

The charge transfer resistance has a great influence on heterogeneous electrocatalytic kinetics in DEFCs. EIS measurements were utilized to detect the electronic conductivity and activity of each catalyst toward EOR at -0.35 V. As shown in figure 7, all catalysts appeared semicircular plots in the high frequency area, suggesting kinetically controlled EOR reactions. The diameter of the semicircle in a Nyquist plot is related to the charge transfer resistance (Rct) of EOR

[74]. In other words, the diameter of this semicirclearc is a measure of the electron transfer barrier between the electrode surface and the adsorbed species. The Rct of the catalysts followed the order: commercial Pd/C (250  $\Omega$  cm<sup>2</sup>) >> Pd<sub>65</sub>Sn<sub>26</sub>Cu<sub>9</sub> (44  $\Omega$  cm<sup>2</sup>) > Pd<sub>70</sub>Sn<sub>18</sub>Cu<sub>12</sub> (36  $\Omega$  cm<sup>2</sup>) > Pd<sub>72</sub>Sn<sub>9</sub>Cu<sub>19</sub> (33  $\Omega$  cm<sup>2</sup>) > Pd<sub>61</sub>Sn<sub>34</sub>Cu<sub>5</sub> (30  $\Omega$  cm<sup>2</sup>). The increase in the amount of Cu is accompanied by the decrease in Rct, which means that Cu may improve the entire electronic conductivity. Pd<sub>61</sub>Sn<sub>34</sub>Cu<sub>5</sub> revealed the much smallest Rct, although only minimal Cu was added, suggesting the defects greatly promote electron conduction, which had a great correlation in ECSA and EOR performance [40, 55, 75].

## 4. Conclusion

In this work, compositional-tunable Pd-Sn-Cu NCs with particle connection features have been favorably compounded by the brief one-pot chemical reduction for boosting the ethanol oxidation reaction. A series of electrocatalytic measurements illustrate that the optimized Pd<sub>61</sub>Sn<sub>34</sub>Cu<sub>5</sub> NCs provide 1.26 A mg<sub>Pd</sub><sup>-1</sup> of mass activity and 10.6 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> of specific activity for EOR, which is about 2.21 and 2.58 times greater than that of the commercial Pd/C catalyst. The Pd<sub>61</sub>Sn<sub>34</sub>Cu<sub>5</sub> NCs also display remarkable electrocatalytic stability with a weak electrocatalytic activity loss in the CA tests and EOR cycling stability tests. After the in-depth studies, the unique morphology and suitable composition affect EOR performance. First, the unconventional particle connection structures with the large specific surface areas can effectively enhance Pd atom utilization efficiency and avoid agglomeration during the reaction. Then, the step and corner atoms, the grain boundaries and lattice dislocation sites that are presented on the surface also act a vital part in boosting the electrocatalytic activity. Last but not least, a suitable composition in which Sn and SnO<sub>x</sub> offer abundant OH<sub>ads</sub> species to alleviate significantly the carbonaceous intermediate poisoning effect for the catalytic active sites of Pd, while Cu cannot only enhance the entire electrical conductivity but can also weaken carbonaceous intermediate adsorption energy. Overall, this work provided a simple strategy for designing cost-effective non-Pt catalysts, making them hopeful candidates for the appropriate conception of efficient Pd-based catalysts for electrocatalysis.

#### **Acknowledgments**

This work was financially supported by the Changsha Science & Technology Bureau [2018] (90th-kq1801005), Hunan province of China.

## Data availability statement

All data that support the findings of this study are included within the article (and any supplementary files).

# <span id="page-11-0"></span>Conflicts of interest

There are no conflicts to declare.

## ORCID iDs

Qizhi Don[g](https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0961-7843) [https:](https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0961-7843)//orcid.org/[0000-0003-0961-7843](https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0961-7843)

## References

- [1] Luo B, Zhao F, Xie Z, Yuan Q, Yang F, Yang X, Li C and Zhou Z 2019 ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 11 [32282](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.9b10192)–[32290.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.9b10192)
- [2] Yang C, Zhu Y, Liu J, Qin Y, Wang H, Liu H, Chen Y, Zhang Z and Hu W 2020 Nano Energy 77 [105126](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2020.105126)
- [3] Yan D, Li Y, Huo J, Chen R, Dai L and Wang S 2017 Adv. Mater. 29 [1606459](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201606459)
- [4] Li H, Chen C, Yan D, Wang Y, Chen R, Zou Y and Wang S 2019 J. Mater. Chem. A 7 [23432](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9TA04888J)–50
- [5] Liang Z, Song L, Deng S, Zhu Y, Stavitski E, Adzic R R, Chen J and Wang J X 2019 J. Am. Chem. Soc. 141 [9629](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.9b03474)–36
- [6] Yu X et al Nano Energy 2020 77 [105116](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2020.105116)
- [7] Tian N, Zhou Z-Y and Sun S-G 2009 Chem. Commun. [12](https://doi.org/10.1039/b819751b) [1502](https://doi.org/10.1039/b819751b)–4
- [8] Karuppasamy L, Chen C-Y, Anandan S and Wu J J 2019 ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 11 [10028](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.8b22722)–41
- [9] Tian N, Zhou Z-Y, Yu N-F, Wang L-Y and Sun S-G 2010 J. Am. Chem. Soc. 132 [7580](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja102177r)–1
- [10] Lee Y W, Kim M, Kim Y, Kang S W, Lee J-H and Han S W 2010 J. Phys. Chem. C 114 [7689](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp9119588)–93
- [11] Lopes T, Antolini E and Gonzalez E R 2008 Int. J. Hydrog. Energy 33 [5563](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2008.05.030)–70
- [12] Torrero J, Montiel M, Peña M A, Ocón P and Rojas S 2019 Int. J. Hydrog. Energy 44 [31995](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2019.10.124)–2002
- [13] Li F, Xue Q, Ma G, Li S, Hu M, Yao H, Wang X and Chen Y 2020 J. Power Sources 450 [227615](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2019.227615)
- [14] Liu X-Y, Zhang Y, Gong M-X, Tang Y-W, Lu T-H, Chen Y and Lee J-M 2014 J. Mater. Chem. A 2 [13840](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4TA02522A)–4
- [15] Jiang K, Wang P, Guo S, Zhang X, Shen X, Lu G, Su D and Huang X 2016 Angew. Chem. 128 [9176](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201603022)–81
- [16] Wang J, Zhang P, Xiahou Y, Wang D, Xia H and Möhwald H 2018 ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 10 [602](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.7b14955)–[613.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.7b14955)
- [17] Jiang K, Wang P, Guo S, Zhang X, Shen X, Lu G, Su D and Huang X 2016 Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 55 [9030](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201603022)–5
- [18] Guo X, Shang H, Guo J, Xu H and Du Y 2019 Appl. Surf. Sci. 481 [1532](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2019.03.234)–7
- [19] Zhang Y, Huang B, Shao Q, Feng Y, Xiong L, Peng Y and Huang X 2019 Nano Lett. 19 [6894](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.9b02137)–903
- [20] Chen Q, Yang Y, Cao Z, Kuang Q, Du G, Jiang Y, Xie Z and Zheng L 2016 Angew. Chem. 128 [9167](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201602592)–71
- [21] Jin L, Xu H, Chen C, Shang H, Wang Y, Wang C and Du Y 2019 ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 11 [42123](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.9b13557)–30
- [22] Ren G, Liu Y, Wang W, Wang M, Zhang Z, Liang Y, Wu S and Shen J 2018 ACS Appl. Nano Mater. 1 [3226](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.8b00438)–35
- [23] Huang W et al 2017 Adv. Mater. 29 [1703057](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201703057)
- [24] Song P, Cui X, Shao Q, Feng Y, Zhu X and Huang X 2017 J. Mater. Chem. A 5 [24626](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7TA08467F)–30
- [25] Yan S-Y, Huang Y-R, Yang C-Y, Liu C-W, Wang J-H and Wang K-W 2018 Electrochim. Acta [259](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2017.11.024) 733–41
- [26] Antolini E and Gonzalez E R 2011 Catal. Today [160](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cattod.2010.07.018) 28–38
- [27] Evans E J, Li H, Han S, Henkelman G and Mullins C B 2019 ACS Catal. 9 [4516](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.8b04820)–25
- [28] Zhou H, Wang D and Gong X-Q 2020 Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 22 [7738](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0CP00204F)–46

- [29] Zhang L, Yang L, Zhao Y, Zhang J, Feng D and Sun S 2017 J. Phys. Chem. A 121 [4868](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpca.7b03704)–80
- [30] Pham H Q, Huynh T T, Bach L G and Ho V T T 2020 Int. J. Hydrog. Energy (https://doi.org/[10.1016](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2020.03.066)/j. [ijhydene.2020.03.066](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2020.03.066))
- [31] Wang Y, Tabet-Aoul A and Mohamedi M 2016 J. Electrochem. Soc. 163 [F1272](https://doi.org/10.1149/2.0031613jes)–8
- [32] Dong Q, Wu M, Mei D, Shao Y, Wang Y, Liu J, Li H and Hong L 2018 Nano Energy 53 [940](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2018.08.060)–8
- [33] Zhu F, Ma G, Bai Z, Hang R, Tang B, Zhang Z and Wang X 2013 J. Power Sources 242 [610](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2013.05.145)–20
- [34] Ning L, Liu X, Deng M, Huang Z, Zhu A, Zhang Q and Liu Q 2019 Electrochim. Acta 297 [206](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2018.11.188)–14
- [35] Salomé S, Ferraria A M, Botelho do Rego A M, Alcaide F, Savadogo O and Rego R 2016 Electrochim. Acta [192](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2016.01.177) [268](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2016.01.177)–82
- [36] Moraes L P R, Matos B R, Radtke C, Santiago E I, Fonseca F C, Amico S C and Malfatti C F 2016 Int. J. Hydrog. Energy 41 [6457](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2016.02.150)–68
- [37] Xu H, Yan B, Zhang K, Wang J, Li S, Wang C, Du Y and Yang P 2018 Electrochim. Acta 261 [521](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2018.01.004)–9
- [38] Li N, Fan Y, Shi Y, Xiang Q, Wang X and Xu J 2019 Sensors Actuators B 294 [106](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.snb.2019.04.061)–15
- [39] Huang Y, Liu Y, Wang W, Chen M, Li H, Lee S.-c., Ho W, Huang T and Cao J 2020 Appl. Catal. B 278 [119294](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2020.119294)
- [40] Tao L et al 2018 Nano Energy 53 [604](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2018.09.013)–12
- [41] Huang X, Zhu E, Chen Y, Li Y, Chiu C-Y, Xu Y, Lin Z, Duan X and Huang Y 2013 Adv. Mater. 25 [2974](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201205315)–9
- [42] Zhu E et al 2019 Nano Lett. 19 [3730](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.9b00867)–6
- [43] Alinezhad A, Benedetti T M, Gloag L, Cheong S, Watt J, Chen H-S, Gooding J J and Tilley R D 2020 ACS Appl. Nano Mater. 3 [5995](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsanm.0c01159)–6000
- [44] Du W, Wang Q, LaScala C A, Zhang L, Su D, Frenkel A I, Mathur V K and Teng X 2011 J. Mater. Chem. [21](https://doi.org/10.1039/c0jm04358c) [8887](https://doi.org/10.1039/c0jm04358c)–92
- [45] Li M, Cullen D A, Sasaki K, Marinkovic N S, More K and Adzic R R 2013 J. Am. Chem. Soc. 135 [132](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja306384x)–41
- [46] Mukherjee P, Roy P S, Mandal K, Bhattacharjee D, Dasgupta S and Bhattacharya S K 2015 Electrochim. Acta 154 [447](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2014.12.054)–55
- [47] Huang J, Liu Y, Xu M, Wan C, Liu H, Li M, Huang Z, Duan X, Pan X and Huang Y 2019 Nano Lett. [19](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.9b01937) [5431](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.9b01937)–6
- [48] Peng C, Yang W, Wu E, Ma Y, Zheng Y, Nie Y, Zhang H and Xu J 2017 J. Alloy Compd. 698 [250](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2016.12.198)–8
- [49] Chen Y, Liang Z, Yang F, Liu Y and Chen S 2011 J. Phys. Chem. C 115 [24073](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp207828n)–9
- [50] Bin D, Yang B, Zhang K, Wang C, Wang J, Zhong J, Feng Y, Guo J and Du Y 2016 Chem.—A Eur. J. 22 [16642](https://doi.org/10.1002/chem.201601544)–7
- [51] Wang Y, He Q, Guo J, Wang J, Luo Z, Shen T D, Ding K, Khasanov A, Wei S and Guo Z 2015 ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 7 [23920](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.5b06194)–31
- [52] Qin Y-H, Yang H-H, Zhang X-S, Li P, Zhou X-G, Niu L and Yuan W-K 2010 Carbon 48 [3323](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.carbon.2010.05.010)–9
- [53] Yang Z, Wang X, Kang X, Zhang S and Guo Y 2017 Electrochim. Acta [236](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2017.03.165) 72–81
- [54] Zamanzad Ghavidel M R, Monteverde Videla A H A, Specchia S and Easton E B 2017 Electrochim. Acta [230](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2017.01.129) [58](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2017.01.129)–[72](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2017.01.129)
- [55] Yu P. e., Xu H, Jin L, Chen C, Shang H, Liu Q and Du Y 2019 J. Colloid Interface Sci. [555](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2019.07.092) [195](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2019.07.092)–202
- [56] Luo M and Guo S 2017 Nat. Rev. Mater. 2 [17059](https://doi.org/10.1038/natrevmats.2017.59)
- [57] Hu C, Zhou Y, Xiao M and Yu G 2020 Int. J. Hydrog. Energy 45 [4341](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2019.11.176)–54
- [58] Zhang R, Wang L, Ma Y-H, Pan L, Gao R, Li K, Zhang X and Zou J-J 2019 J. Mater. Chem. A 7 [10010](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9TA01771B)–8
- [59] Zhang T, Bai Y, Sun Y, Hang L, Li X, Liu D, Lyu X, Li C, Cai W and Li Y 2018 J. Mater. Chem. A 6 [13735](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8TA04087G)–42
- [60] Francis M F and Curtin W A 2015 Nat. Commun. 6 [6261](https://doi.org/10.1038/ncomms7261)

- <span id="page-12-0"></span>[61] Ipadeola A K, Barik R, Ray S C and Ozoemena K I 2019 Electrocatalysis 10 [366](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12678-019-00518-5)–80
- [62] Dai S, Huang T-H, Chien P-C, Lin C-A, Liu C-W, Lee S-W, Wang J-H, Wang K-W and Pan X 2020 J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 11 [2846](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpclett.0c00213)–53
- [63] Zhou Z-Y, Wang Q, Lin J-L, Tian N and Sun S-G 2010 Electrochim. Acta 55 [7995](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2010.02.071)–9
- [64] Kormányos A, Speck F D, Mayrhofer K J J and Cherevko S 2020 ACS Catal. 10 [10858](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c02094)–70
- [65] Yu X, Luo Z, Zhang T, Tang P, Li J, Wang X, Llorca J, Arbiol J, Liu J and Cabot A 2020 Chem. Mater. 32 [2044](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.9b05094)–52
- [66] Rezaee S, Shahrokhian S and Amini M K 2018 J. Phys. Chem. C 122 [9783](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.8b01475)–94
- [67] Liu X, Wang X, Wu J, Zhu A, Zhang Q and Liu Q 2019 Electrochim. Acta 302 [145](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2019.02.022)–52

- [68] Maniam K K, Muthukumar V and Chetty R 2016 Int. J. Hydrog. Energy 41 [18602](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2016.08.064)–9
- [69] Schmidt T J, Stamenkovic V, Ross J P N and Markovic N M 2003 Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 5 [400](https://doi.org/10.1039/b208322a)–6
- [70] Wang Y, Sun D, Wang M, Feng Z and Hall A S 2020 J. Phys. Chem. C 124 [5220](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b11734)–4
- [71] Shi X, Wen Y, Guo X, Pan Y, Ji Y, Ying Y and Yang H 2017 ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 9 [25995](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.7b06296)–6000
- [72] Spendelow J S, Goodpaster J D, Kenis P J A and Wieckowski A 2006 J. Phys. Chem. B 110 [9545](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp060100c)–55
- [73] Spendelow J S, Lu G Q, Kenis P J A and Wieckowski A 2004 J. Electroanal. Chem. 568 [215](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jelechem.2004.01.018)–24
- [74] Wang Y et al 2015 J. Electrochem. Soc. 162 [F755](https://doi.org/10.1149/2.0751507jes)–63
- [75] Takei T, Suenaga J, Ishida T and Haruta M 2015 Top. Catal. 58 [295](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11244-015-0370-4)–301