---
source: Xu 等 - 2018 - High‐Quality Platinum–Iron Nanodendrites with a Multibranched Architecture as Efficient Electrocatal.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 33.935s
generated: 2026-01-09T05:20:52.540559Z
---

DOI: 10.1002/cctc.201800109

## High-Quality Platinum-Iron Nanodendrites with a Multibranched Architecture as Efficient Electrocatalysts for the Ethanol Oxidation Reaction

Hui Xu<sup>+</sup>,<sup>[a]</sup> Pingping Song<sup>+</sup>,<sup>[a]</sup> Jin Wang,<sup>[a]</sup> Fei Gao,<sup>[a]</sup> Yangping Zhang,<sup>[a]</sup> Yukihide Shiraishi,<sup>[b]</sup> and Yukou Du<sup>\*[a, b]</sup>

Although great success has been made in the design of welldefined nanocrystals (NCs) with various morphologies, a facile method to prepare desirable NCs with large active surface areas and unique facets remains an arduous challenge. Herein, we demonstrate a facile method for the successful synthesis of high-quality PtFe nanodendrites with a multibranched architecture; these nanodendrites have an abundance of exposed surface active sites that are available for ethanol molecules. Detailed study of its electrocatalytic properties revealed that the resultant superbranched PtFe nanocatalysts displayed superior electrocatalytic activity towards ethanol oxidation with unprecedentedly high mass/specific activities of 3692.5 mA mg<sup>-1</sup> and 7.02 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>; these values are 9.3 and 10.0-fold higher than those of a commercial Pt/C catalyst, signifying that the these nanodendrites may serve as highly efficient catalysts for fuel cells and beyond.

Rational design of the structures of nanomaterials offers new opportunities for researching highly efficient electrocatalysts towards liquid-fuel oxidation.<sup>[1]</sup> It is generally recognized that the electrocatalytic performances of noble-metal nanocatalysts are greatly dependent on their composition, size, shape, and, especially, surface structure.[2] Nanocrystals (NCs) with a welldefined shape may expose high-energy facets and abundant surface active sites, which thus may lead to a great increase in catalytic activity.[3] Over the last decade, great effort has been devoted to regulating and designing the morphology of nanomaterials. Among these nanomaterials, superbranched nanostructures have sparked extensive interest owing to the fact that NCs with a highly branched structure possess interlinked branches that can serve as bridges to connect each subunit and facilitate charger transfer during a reaction.<sup>[4]</sup> Besides, superbranched nanostructures can also supply abundant sharp tips and generate a high electric field; thus, they are able to boost transport of the reactant, which can result in a substantial enhancement in electrocatalytic activity.<sup>[5]</sup>

Besides morphology control, tuning the composition of noble-metal nanomaterials is also crucial, as it can affect the ultimate activity of the catalyst and can account for typical composition-activity relationships.<sup>[6]</sup> Platinum (Pt) is undoubtedly the best electrocatalyst for direct fuel cells, especially for direct ethanol fuel cells (DEFCs).[7] However, taking into consideration its high cost, scare natural abundance, and poor antipoisoning properties, it is urgently necessary to develop cost-efficient electrocatalysts with maximized utilization efficiency but high activity.[8] One efficient strategy is to alloy Pt with a typical 3d transition metal to form a stable Pt-M alloy (M = Ag, Cu, Co, Ni, Fe). Generally, the d-band center of Pt can be efficiently downshifted after alloying Pt with a 3d transition metal.[9] More importantly, lattice contraction originating from the formation of the Pt-M alloy phase is also beneficial to improve the electrocatalytic activity.<sup>[10]</sup> Along this direction, the fabrication of bimetallic Pt-M NCs is of great interest and has thus been extensively studied.

Among various Pt–M alloys, Pt–Fe alloy nanocatalysts have been demonstrated to exhibit apparently enhanced catalytic performances as efficient electrocatalysts towards liquid-fuel oxidation. [11] Furthermore, it has also been proved that the dramatic synergistic effect arising from Pt and Fe alloying can play a significant role in promoting the electrocatalytic performance of ethanol oxidation in terms of activity and durability. [12] To this end, the synthesis of high-quality and cost-efficient Pt–Fe nanocatalysts has witnessed renewed interest from investigators in recent years.

Inspired by the above two strategies, we designed an advanced class of nanocatalysts that combined the advantages of both morphology and composition. Herein, a facile wetchemical method was developed for the high-yielding preparation of a class of Pt-Fe NCs with a multibranch architecture. Remarkably, the resulting Pt<sub>2</sub>Fe NCs displayed superior electrocatalytic activity towards the ethanol oxidation reaction (EOR) with mass/specific activities of 3692.5 mA mg<sup>-1</sup> and 7.02 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>; these values are much higher than those of commercial Pt/C. More importantly, such multibranched Pt<sub>2</sub>Fe NCs also displayed unprecedented stability with the highest normalized current of 46.3 % after 500 successive cyclic voltammetry cycles; thus, they show significant promise as high-performance electrocatalysts for practical fuel cells.

[b] Prof. Y. Shiraishi, Prof. Y. Du Tokyo University of Science Yamaguchi Sanyo-Onoda-shi, Yamaguchi 756-0884 (Japan)

[+] These authors contributed equally to this work.

Supporting Information and the ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/

cctc.201800109.

<sup>[</sup>a] H. Xu,<sup>+</sup> P. Song,<sup>+</sup> J. Wang, F. Gao, Y. Zhang, Prof. Y. Du College of Chemistry, Chemical Engineering and Materials Science Soochow University Suzhou 215123 (P. R. China) E-mail: duyk@suda.edu.cn

In a typical experiment, the highly branched PtFe NCs were generated by a facile solvothermal approach for the co-reduction of Pt(acac)<sup>2</sup> (acac=acetylacetonate) and Fe(Ac)<sup>2</sup> (Ac=acetate) with glycine and W(CO)<sup>6</sup> in oleylamine solution at 2208C for 1 h. Figure 1 a, b depicts representative transmission elec-

Figure 1. a,b) Representative TEM images of Pt2Fe nanodendrites at different magnifications. c) HRTEM image of Pt2Fe nanodendrites with multiplied branches. d) Typical PXRD patterns of Pt2Fe NCs and the standard Pt . e,f) HAADF-STEM and HAADF-STEM-EDS elemental mapping images of Pt2Fe NCs.

tron microscopy (TEM) images of the product; it can be observed that the samples are composed of multiple nanobranches with a diameter approaching 21 nm. Detailed observation indicates that the rough surface of each branch also contains rich granule protuberances, which could thus provide more surface active sites for organic molecules.[13] The information of the crystal structures was first acquired by high-resolution TEM (HRTEM). As shown in Figure 1 c, the lattice constant for a single nanodendrite was calculated to be approximately 0.218 nm, showing a cyclical lattice stretching after the formation of the alloy phase.[11b,14] Further structural properties were received through powder X-ray diffraction (PXRD). From Figure 1 d we can observe that the diffraction peaks of the Pt2Fe nanodendrites are indexed to the PtFe face-centered cubic (fcc) phase, and the diffraction peaks are clearly shifted relative to those of the Pt standard, which further confirms the formation of PtFe nanoalloys.[15] The unique highly branched dendrite structure is also confirmed by high-angle annular darkfield scanning TEM (HAADF-STEM). It turns out that the products are highly branched with a rough surface (Figure 1e). To reveal the elemental composition, we also performed HAADF-STEM energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) elemental mapping analysis to characterize the distributions of the Pt and Fe elements in the Pt2Fe nanodendrites. Both Pt and Fe are spreading over the nanodendrite homogeneously (Figure 1 f), which further demonstrates the formation of a single alloy phase in the final product.[16] As determined by inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectroscopy (ICP-AES), the Pt/Fe composition is 67.2:32.8, which is consistent with the feed ratio.

Furthermore, the surface composition of the Pt2Fe nanodendrites was also analyzed by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) (Figure S1 in the Supporting Information). As seen, the Pt4f spectrum can be well deconvoluted into two well-defined bands that correspond to Pt4f7/2 and Pt4f5/2. [17] Similarly, the Fe3p spectrum is assigned to Fe3p3/2 and Fe 3p1/2. Remarkably, the binding energy of Pt 4f is shifted positively to a higher binding energy relative to the standard, whereas Fe3p displays a downshift to a lower binding energy, and this is indicative of the occurrence of electron transfer from Fe to Pt. More importantly, the results show that the content of Pt is two times higher than that of Fe; this matches the ICP-AES and TEM-EDS results and is indicative of the formation of a homogeneous PtFe alloy.

Although a great amount of research on the synthesis of highly efficient Pt-based NCs with a highly branched architecture has been reported, the creation of superbranched PtFe nanodendrites has not yet been reported. To provide a feasible method for the synthesis of highly branched Pt-based nanodendrites, uncovering the mechanism of formation is urgent. In this regard, a set of control experiments regarding the experimental parameters were thoroughly investigated. Among various reagents, glycine in our synthesis appears to play a crucial role in the controlled synthesis of the desired PtFe nanodendrites. As seen in Figure S2 a,b, the reaction in the absence of glycine yielded some nanoparticles with irregular shapes and sizes; this result revealed the significant role of glycine in the successful preparation of highly branched PtFe nanodendrites. Additionally, the selective use of hexadecyltrimethylammonium chloride (CTAC) was also proven to be another critical factor for the growth of the superbranch structure. As observed by the TEM images in Figure S2 c, d, only some bulk counterparts could be obtained in the reaction system without the presence of CTAC.

In fact, it was previously demonstrated that the morphology of the products could also be affected greatly by the composition.[18] Accordingly, we also investigated the influence of the composition on the final shape of the products. Figure 2 shows typical TEM images of Pt1Fe NCs (Figure 2 a, b) and Pt4Fe NCs (Figure 2 c, d) prepared by the same method but by varying the amount of Fe(Ac)<sup>2</sup> . As seen, the Pt1Fe NCs display the typical dendrite-like structure with many petals, but fewer branches are observed. As for the Pt4Fe NCs, unlike the Pt2Fe

Figure 2. Representative TEM images of a, b) Pt1Fe NCs and c,d) Pt4Fe NCs.

NCs and Pt1Fe NCs, these nanodendrites grow to be much bigger with some short branches distributed on the rough surface. These data reveal that the synthesis of high-quality PtFe nanodendrites with a multibranched architecture is composition dependent and that a Pt/Fe feed ratio of 2:1 is appropriate for the preparation of ideal products.[19]

The as-obtained high-quality PtFe nanodendrites possess a superbranched architecture with a large active surface area, and they thus hold significant promise as cost-efficient electrocatalysts for large-scale practical applications.[20] We next examined their electrocatalytic performance towards EOR, which is of vital importance for renewable energy with many superiorities, including high energy density, relative safety, environmental benignity, and so on. For ease of comparison, the commercial Pt/C catalyst and two other types of electrocatalysts were also examined. We loaded the catalysts on carbon black (Vulcan XC72R carbon, C) by sonication and washed the resulting material twice with acetic acid at room temperature. The TEM images of the Pt2Fe NCs are shown in Figure S3. Cyclic voltammetry (CV) for all of the electrocatalysts was first conducted in 1m KOH solution at potentials ranging from @0.9 to 0.3 V (Figure 3 a); the electrochemically active surface areas (ECSAs) were calculated on the basis of hydrogen adsorption/ desorption processes (Figure 3 b). The ECSA values were calculated to be 52.6, 50.8, 48.9, and 56.3 m 2g @1 for the Pt2Fe NCs, Pt4Fe NCs, Pt1Fe NCs, and commercial Pt/C, respectively.

CV performed in 1m KOH and 1m CH3CH2OH solution was also employed to evaluate the electrocatalytic activities. As seen in Figure 3 c, the forward peak can be ascribed to ethanol oxidation, whereas the peak during the backward scan is associated with the removal of carbonaceous species produced in the forward electrooxidation scan. Remarkably, the Pt2Fe NCs display the highest peak current density among all of the electrocatalysts investigated. Figure 3d summarizes the specific/ mass activities of these four electrocatalysts with respect to the ECSA values and Pt masses. As observed, the Pt2Fe NCs show the highest mass and specific activities of 3692.5 mAmg@<sup>1</sup> and 7.02 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> , respectively; these values are 9.3- and 10.0-fold higher than those of the commercial Pt/ C catalyst (397.9 mAmg@<sup>1</sup> and 0.70 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> ). Additionally, the Pt4Fe NCs and Pt1Fe NCs also display greatly enhanced electrocatalytic activities of 2920.4 mAmg@<sup>1</sup> /5.75 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> and 2308.6 mAmg@<sup>1</sup> /4.72 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> , respectively. Besides, the products of the ethanol oxidation reaction were also characterized

Figure 3. a) CO stripping of Pt2Fe NCs, Pt4Fe NCs, Pt1Fe NCs, and commercial Pt/C conducted at a scanning rate of 50 mVs @1 . b) Calculated ECSA values of these four electrocatalysts. c) CV curves of Pt2Fe NCs, Pt4Fe NCs, Pt1Fe NCs, and commercial Pt/C conducted in 1m KOH and 1m CH3CH2OH solution at a scanning rate of 50 mVs @1 . d) Calculated specific and mass activities of these four electrocatalysts.

by Fourier-transform infrared (FITR) spectroscopy. From Figure S4, the band at n˜ =3438 cm@<sup>1</sup> can be attributed to the OH stretching vibration. The bands at n˜ =2921 and 2848 cm@<sup>1</sup> originate from the CH stretching vibration. The band at n˜ = 2363 cm@<sup>1</sup> is due to the stretching vibration of the carboxyl groups C=O such as CO<sup>2</sup> and so on. On the basis of the above analyses, we can conclude that the electrocatalytic oxidation of ethanol can also produce CO<sup>2</sup> in alkaline media, which further demonstrates the outstanding electrocatalytic ethanol oxidation capability of the Pt-Fe NCs.[21] These results reveal that the incorporation of Fe into Pt and the formation of unique dendrites with a highly branched structure are beneficial for the promotion of electrocatalytic activity.

Durability is another significant parameter for evaluating the properties of electrocatalysts; an electrocatalyst with better durability has a much longer lifetime, which is crucial for practical commercial applications.[22] In the case of durability, we performed chronoamperometry (CA) measurements at a fixed potential of @0.3 V for 3600 s. As it can be seen in Figure 4 a, the normalized current densities of all the electrocatalysts decay rapidly in the initial stage, which may be ascribed to partial dissolution of the electrocatalysts and the influence of some poisonous intermediate species.[23] However, the Pt2Fe NCs display the slowest current decay over time and retain the highest mass activity among these catalysts. For a detailed comparison, the normalized current densities and retained mass activities for all of the electrocatalysts studied are also recorded in Figure 4 b. Remarkably, the Pt2Fe NCs show the highest retained mass activity (418.9 mAmg@<sup>1</sup> ) and normalized current (11.3%) which are clearly superior to the Pt/C (14.3 mAmg@<sup>1</sup> / 3.6%), Pt1Fe (88.1 mAmg@<sup>1</sup> /3.8%), and Pt4Fe (216.7 mAmg@<sup>1</sup> / 7.4%) catalysts; these results show the superior durability of the highly branched PtFe nanodendrites, further confirming their excellent electrocatalytic performance.

Apart from these, 500 successive CV cycles were also conducted to study further their long-term stability. As displayed in Figure 4 c, the normalized current densities of all the electrocatalysts display similar tendency to the CA curves, for which the Pt2Fe NCs also display the slowest current decay over the cycles and retain the highest normalized current density and mass activity among these catalysts. From Figure 4 d, we can see that the Pt2Fe NCs still possess a high normalized current (46.3%) and retain a mass activity of 1709.6 mAmg@<sup>1</sup> after 500 successive CV cycle; these values are much higher than those of the Pt/C (46.9 mAmg@<sup>1</sup> /11.8%), Pt4Fe (727.2 mAmg@<sup>1</sup> / 31.5%), and Pt1Fe (1057.2 mAmg@<sup>1</sup> /36.2%) catalysts. More interestingly, the TEM, HAADF-STEM, and EDS mapping images in Figure 5 also show that the highly branched PtFe nanodendrites possess extremely high stability for the EOR, as negligible variations in the composition, structure, and morphology can be observed after the long-term durability test. All of these measurements and analyses further confirm the superior electrocatalytic durability of the NCs towards the EOR, consistent with the results of the CV test.

In general, we successfully engineered a novel class of Pt–Fe nanocrystals (NCs) with a highly branched structure through a facile one-pot method. Strikingly,aseries of control experiments revealed that the feed ratio and the addition of glycine were significant in maintaining the high quality of the Pt–Fe NCs. Impressively, owing to the optimized compositions, morphological features, and electronic and synergistic effects, the well-defined Pt2Fe bimetallic NCs could serve as excellent electrocatalysts towards the EOR; these catalysts presented superior electrocatalytic activities of 3692.5 mAmg@<sup>1</sup> and

Figure 4. a) CA curves of Pt2Fe NCs, Pt4Fe NCs, Pt1Fe NCs, and commercial Pt/C conducted in 1m KOH and 1m CH3CH2OH solution at a fixed potential of @0.3 V. b) Calculated normalized current and retained mass activities of these four electrocatalysts after CA measurement for 3600 s. c) Normalized current densities of Pt2Fe NCs, Pt4Fe NCs, Pt1Fe NCs, and commercial Pt/C versus cycle number. d) Calculated normalized current and retained mass activities of these four electrocatalysts after 500 successive CV cycles.

Figure 5. Representative a) TEM, b) HAADF-STEM, and c) HAADF-STEM-EDS mapping images of Pt2Fe NCs after the durability measurement.

7.02 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> , which are much better than those of the commercial Pt/C catalyst. More interestingly, the well-defined Pt2Fe bimetallic NCs were also found to possess outstanding longterm stability with less decay after the durability test. Our investigation is of direct significance for controlling the synthesis of highly branched Pt-based nanocatalysts with desirable functionalities.

## Acknowledgements

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 51373111), the Suzhou Industry (SYG201636), the project of scientific and technologic infrastructure of Suzhou (SZS201708), and the Priority Academic Program Development of Jiangsu Higher Education Institutions (PAPD).

## Conflict of interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

Keywords: fuel cells · iron · nanostructures · oxidation · platinum

- [1] a) Q. Chen, Y. Yang, Z. Cao, Q. Kuang, G. Du, Y. Jiang, Z. Xie, L. Zheng, [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201602592) Int. Ed. 2016, 55, 9021 – 9025; [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201602592) 2016, 128, [9167](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201602592) [– 9171](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201602592); b) A. Zalineeva, A. Serov, M. Padilla, U. Martinez, K. Artyushkova, S. Baranton, C. Coutanceau, P. B. Atanassov, J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja412429f) Soc. 2014, 136[, 3937](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja412429f) [– 3945](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja412429f).
- [2] a) L. Bu, Q. Shao, B. E, J. Guo, J. Yao, X. Huang, J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b03510) Soc. 2017, 139[, 9576](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b03510) [– 9582](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b03510); b) C. Zhu, S. Guo, S. Dong, Adv. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201104951) 2012, 24, 2326 – [2331;](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201104951) c) P. Zhang, X. Dai, X. Zhang, Z. Chen, Y. Yang, H. Sun, X. Wang, H. Wang, M. Wang, H. Su, D. Li, X. Li, Y. Qin, Chem. Mater. 2015, 27[, 6402](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.5b02575) – [6410.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.5b02575)
- [3] a) Z.-C. Zhang, X.-C. Tian, B.-W. Zhang, L. Huang, F.-C. Zhu, X.-M. Qu, L. Liu, S. Liu, Y.-X. Jiang, S.-G. Sun, Nano [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2017.02.023) 2017, 34[, 224– 232](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2017.02.023); b) N. Zhang, L. Bu, S. Guo, J. Guo, X. Huang, Nano Lett. 2016, 16[, 5037](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.6b01825) [– 5043.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.nanolett.6b01825)

- [4] a) Y. Kuang, Z. Cai, Y. Zhang, D. He, X. Yan, Y. Bi, Y. Li, Z. Li, X. Sun, [ACS](https://doi.org/10.1021/am5041412) Appl. [Mater. Interfaces](https://doi.org/10.1021/am5041412) 2014, 6, 17748– 17752; b) M. Iqbal, C. Li, J. H. Kim, S. M. Alshehri, T. Nakayama, Y. Yamauchi, [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/chem.201604026) Eur. J. 2017, 23, [51– 56](https://doi.org/10.1002/chem.201604026).
- [5] a) J. Liu, G. Xu, B. Liu, J. Zhang, Chem. [Commun.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7CC01559C) 2017, 53, 7457 7460; b) Y. Kang, Q. Xue, R. Peng, P. Jin, J. Zeng, J. Jiang, Y. Chen, [NPG Asia](https://doi.org/10.1038/am.2017.114) [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1038/am.2017.114) 2017, 9, e407.
- [6] a) H. Xu, K. Zhang, B. Yan, J. Wang, C. Wang, S. Li, Z. Gu, Y. Du, P. Yang, J. [Power Sources](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2017.04.070) 2017, 356, 27 –35; b) H. Xu, J. Wang, B. Yan, S. Li, C. Wang, Y. Shiraishi, P. Yang, Y. Du, [Nanoscale](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7NR06737B) 2017, 9, 17004 – 17012.
- [7] a) G. Zhang, Z. Yang, W. Zhang, H. Hu, C. Wang, C. Huang, Y. Wang, [Nanoscale](https://doi.org/10.1039/C5NR08013D) 2016, 8, 3075 – 3084; b) M. Wang, Y. He, R. Li, Z. Ma, Z. Zhang, X. Wang, [Electrochim.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2015.07.157) Acta 2015, 178, 259 – 269; c) Y. Shen, B. Gong, K. Xiao, L. Wang, ACS Appl. [Mater. Interfaces](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.6b09573) 2017, 9, 3535– 3543.
- [8] a) Z. Lin, W. Chen, Y. Jiang, T. Bian, H. Zhang, J. Wu, Y. Wang, D. Yang, [Nanoscale](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6NR03303B) 2016, 8, 12812 – 12818; b) W. Hong, C. Shang, J. Wang, E. Wang, [Nanoscale](https://doi.org/10.1039/C5NR01679G) 2015, 7, 9985 – 9989.
- [9] a) H. Du, S. Luo, K. Wang, M. Tang, R. Sriphathoorat, Y. Jin, P. K. Shen, Chem. Mater. 2017, 29[, 9613](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.7b03406) [– 9617](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.7b03406); b) Y. Huang, T. Zhao, L. Zeng, P. Tan, J. Xu, [Electrochim. Acta](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2015.12.223) 2016, 190, 956– 963.
- [10] a) X. Weng, Q. Liu, J. J. Feng, J. Yuan, A. J. Wang, J. Colloid [Interface](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2017.05.089) Sci. 2017, 504[, 680– 687](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2017.05.089); b) H. Xu, B. Yan, K. Zhang, J. Wang, S. Li, C. Wang, Y. Shiraishi, Y. Du, P. Yang, Int. J. [Hydrogen](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2017.06.238) Energy 2017, 42, 20720 – [20728](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2017.06.238); c) G. Wu, R. Swaidan, D. Li, N. Li, [Electrochim. Acta](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2008.03.082) 2008, 53, [7622](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2008.03.082) [– 7629](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2008.03.082).
- [11] a) C. Xu, Q. Li, Y. Liu, J. Wang, H. Geng, [Langmuir](https://doi.org/10.1021/la203835n) 2012, 28, 1886 1892; b) C. Hu, Y. Zhao, H. Cheng, Y. Hu, G. Shi, L. Dai, L. Qu, Chem. [Commun.](https://doi.org/10.1039/c2cc37413g) 2012, 48[, 11865](https://doi.org/10.1039/c2cc37413g) [– 11867.](https://doi.org/10.1039/c2cc37413g)
- [12] a) H. Duan, Q. Hao, C. Xu, J. Power [Sources](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2014.07.026) 2014, 269[, 589– 596](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2014.07.026); b) J.-E. Lee, Y. J. Jang, W. Xu, Z. Feng, H.-Y. Park, J. Y. Kim, D. H. Kim, J. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7TA02660A) Chem. A 2017, 5[, 13692 –](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7TA02660A) 13699; c) J. Liu, T. Xia, S. Wang, G. Yang, B. Dong, C. Wang, Q. Ma, Y. Sun, R. Wang, [Nanoscale](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6NR00883F) 2016, 8, 11432 – [11440.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C6NR00883F)
- [13] a) N. Zhang, S. Guo, X. Zhu, J. Guo, X. Huang, Chem. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.6b01642) 2016, 28, [4447](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.6b01642) [– 4452](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemmater.6b01642); b) H. Xu, B. Yan, K. Zhang, J. Wang, S. Li, C. Wang, Y. Shiraishi, Y. Du, P. Yang, J. Alloys [Compd.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2017.06.230) 2017, 723[, 36 –42](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jallcom.2017.06.230); c) G. Fu, H. Liu, N. You, J. Wu, D. Sun, L. Xu, Y. Tang, Y. Chen, Nano Res. 2016, 9[, 755–](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-015-0954-0) [765.](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-015-0954-0)
- [14] L. Chen, C. Bock, P. H. J. Mercier, B. R. MacDougall, [Electrochim.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2012.05.103) Acta 2012, 77[, 212– 224.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2012.05.103)
- [15] Y. Sun, T. Zhou, Q. Pan, X. Zhang, J. Guo, RSC Adv. 2015, 5[, 60237](https://doi.org/10.1039/C5RA05769H) [60245](https://doi.org/10.1039/C5RA05769H).
- [16] Z. Cai, Y. Kuang, X. Qi, P. Wang, Y. Zhang, Z. Zhang, X. Sun, J. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4TA04698F) [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4TA04698F) A 2015, 3, 1182 [– 1187.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4TA04698F)
- [17] J. Bai, C. L. Fang, Z. H. Liu, Y. Chen, [Nanoscale](https://doi.org/10.1039/C5NR08150E) 2016, 8, 2875 2880.
- [18] a) H. Xu, J. Wang, B. Yan, K. Zhang, S. Li, C. Wang, Y. Shiraishi, Y. Du, P. Yang, [Nanoscale](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7NR04409G) 2017, 9, 12996 – 13003; b) H. Xu, B. Yan, J. Wang, K. Zhang, S. Li, Z. Xiong, C. Wang, Y. Shiraishi, Y. Du, P. Yang, J. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7TA04598K) Chem. A 2017, 5[, 15932 –15939](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7TA04598K); c) L. Liu, L.-X. Chen, A.-J. Wang, J. Yuan, L. Shen, J.-J. Feng, Int. J. [Hydrogen](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2016.03.208) Energy 2016, 41, 8871 – 8880.
- [19] H. Wang, W. Yang, Q. Zhang, Q. Qiu, Int. J. [Electrochem.](https://doi.org/10.1155/2016/4261012) 2016, 2016, 1 [8](https://doi.org/10.1155/2016/4261012).
- [20] a) X. Wang, F. Zhu, Y. He, M. Wang, Z. Zhang, Z. Ma, R. Li, J. [Colloid](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2016.01.068) Interface Sci. 2016, 468[, 200](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcis.2016.01.068) – 210; b) R. Li, Z. Ma, F. Zhang, H. Meng, M. Wang, X.-Q. Bao, B. Tang, X. Wang, [Electrochim. Acta](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2016.10.105) 2016, 220, 193 – [204.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2016.10.105)
- [21] a) V. Del Colle, J. Souza-Garcia, G. Tremiliosi-Filho, E. Herrero, J. M. Feliu, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2011, 13[, 12163](https://doi.org/10.1039/c1cp20546c) – 12172; b) S. Chumillas, C. Busj-Rogero, J. Solla-Gulljn, F. J. Vidal-Iglesias, E. Herrero, J. M. Feliu, [Electrochem. Commun.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.elecom.2011.08.046) 2011, 13, 1194– 1197; c) A. Santasalo-Aarnio, E. Sairanen, R. M. Ar#n-Ais, M. C. Figueiredo, J. Hua, J. M. Feliu, J. Lehtonen, R. Karinen, T. Kallio, J. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2013.08.027) 2014, 309[, 38 –48.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2013.08.027)
- [22] Y. Zhai, Z. Zhu, X. Lu, H. S. Zhou, J. Power [Sources](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2016.08.081) 2016, 329[, 232– 237.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2016.08.081)
- [23] Y. Wang, F.-F. Shi, Y.-Y. Yang, W.-B. Cai, J. [Power Sources](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2013.06.021) 2013, 243, 369 [373.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2013.06.021)

Manuscript received: January 22, 2018 Accepted manuscript online: February 9, 2018 Version of record online: March 14, 2018