---
source: Yang 等 - 2022 - High C–C cleavage efficiencies of ethanol oxidation reaction on mesoporous RhPt electrocatalysts.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 47.989s
generated: 2026-01-09T05:21:40.532329Z
---

#### RESEARCH ARTICLE

# High C-C cleavage efficiencies of ethanol oxidation reaction on mesoporous RhPt electrocatalysts

Sufang Yang<sup>1,2</sup> | Xiaobo Yang<sup>1,2</sup> | Xueqin Cui<sup>3</sup> | Xinhua Gao<sup>4</sup> | Houbing Zou<sup>3</sup> | Xili Tong<sup>1</sup> | Nianjun Yang<sup>5</sup> •

#### Correspondence

Houbing Zou, School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Shanxi University, Taiyuan 030006, China.

Email: zouhb@sxu.edu.cn

Xili Tong, State Key Laboratory of Coal Conversion, Institute of Coal Chemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Taiyuan 030001, China.

Email: tongxili@sxicc.ac.cn

Nianjun Yang, Institute of Materials Engineering, University of Siegen, Siegen 57076, Germany.

Email: nianjun.yang@uni-siegen.de

#### **Funding information**

Shanxi Province Science Foundation, Grant/Award Number: 20210302124446; Basic Research Project from Institute of Coal Chemistry, CAS, Grant/Award Number: SCJC-HN-2022-17; Foundation of State Key Laboratory of Coal Conversion, Grant/Award Number: 2022BWZ006; Foundation of State Key Laboratory of High-efficiency Utilization of Coal and Green Chemical Engineering, Grant/Award Number: 2022-K71

## **Abstract**

Optimizing the structure of an electrocatalyst is critical to achieve its outstanding performance as well as to establish relationships between its composition and its performance. In this work, a series of mesoporous RhPt electrocatalysts (RhPt-MPS) with different compositions are designed and synthesized toward the ethanol oxidation reaction (EOR). The mesoporous structure of RhPt-MPS exposes abundant surface sites and channels for mass transfer of ethanol, and thus boosts the catalytic EOR performance. It has been confirmed that Rh not only reduces the oxidation potential of EOR, but also effectively facilitates the breakage of C—C bond. Stemming from structural and compositional advantages of the RhPt $_{0.6}$ -MPS electrocatalyst, it exhibits the highest activity (2846.0 mA mg $^{-1}$ ) for the EOR when compared with other RhPt-MPS, Rh-MPS, and Pt-MPS electrocatalysts. It also delivers excellent stability and high selectivity than other electrocatalysts.

### KEYWORDS

C—C bond splitting, electrocatalysts, ethanol electro-oxidation reaction, mesoporous materials, RhPt

This is an open access article under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits use, distribution and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited.

© 2022 The Authors. SusMat published by Sichuan University and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

wileyonlinelibrary.com/journal/susmat

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>1</sup>State Key Laboratory of Coal Conversion, Institute of Coal Chemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Taiyuan, China

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>2</sup>University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>3</sup>School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Shanxi University, Taiyuan, China

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>4</sup>NingXia University, Yinchuan, China

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>5</sup>Institute of Materials Engineering, University of Siegen, Siegen, Germany

# 1 | INTRODUCTION

The increased consumption of fossil fuel and resultant environmental pollution have triggered urgency for us to utilize clean and efficient energy sources/devices for our society.<sup>1-3</sup> Direct alcohol fuel cell (DAFC) is one of the most promising alternative power sources/devices because of its advantages of high energy conversion efficiency and easy transportation of fuels.<sup>4-6</sup> For a DAFC, ethanol is renewable as it can be produced from biomass. Meanwhile, ethanol has numerous features, such as low toxicity, safe to transport and store, and it can be oxidized in both acidic and alkaline media. More importantly, it has a higher energy density (8.0 kWh kg<sup>-1</sup> or 6.34 kWh L<sup>-1</sup>) than methanol (6.1 kWh kg<sup>-1</sup>) and hydrogen (0.53 kWh L<sup>-1</sup>). $^{7,8}$ It has to be highlighted here that direct alkaline alcohol fuel cells (DAAFCs) have attracted increasing interests, as a result of faster oxidation kinetic than that in acidic media, reduced alcohol crossover, and the availability of numerous non-noble metal nanomaterials as electrocatalysts to replace expensive Pt-electrocatalysts. 4,7,9

Ethanol is a C-2 type alcohol that has two pathways during its electrochemical oxidation. These pathways are termed as C1-12e<sup>-</sup> and C2-2e<sup>-</sup> or 4e<sup>-</sup>. Namely, an ethanol molecule can release 12 electrons via a complete electro-oxidation process to CO2 or an incomplete electrooxidation process to acetaldehyde (CH<sub>3</sub>CHO) or acetic acid (CH<sub>3</sub>COOH).<sup>7,10</sup> To fabricate DAAFCs using ethanol oxidation reaction (EOR), the conventionally employed anode electrocatalysts are based on noble metals such as Pt and Pd. Unfortunately, they still exhibited relatively high overpotential toward the EOR, undesirable poisoning effect, and low mass activities. 11 More importantly, the Pt electrocatalysts face the difficulties to spilt C—C bonds in ethanol molecules; the Pd electrocatalysts are easy to be oxidized into PdO at similar potentials where the EOR occurs, leading to depressed C-C cleavage. 12-15 On the other hand, an Rh electrocatalyst is helpful to adsorb -OH intermediates. They are critical to remove adsorbed CO molecules that are produced during the EOR, leading to low energy utilization for the ethanol electro-oxidation into CO<sub>2</sub>. <sup>16–18</sup> Meanwhile, the onset oxidation potential of the EOR on Rh electrocatalyst is low and an Rh electrocatalyst owns remarkable C-C cleavage ability. 19-21 In this regard, the formation of electrocatalysts with both Rh and Pt elements is expected to be an efficient route to improve the EOR performance, especially the CO<sub>2</sub> selectivity (or the C-C cleavage) during EOR.<sup>22,23</sup>

Such a strategy is promising to work as the incorporation of a second metal into a metal electrocatalyst has been proved to be an effective approach to increase the activity and stability of such electrocatalysts toward the EOR, originating from a so-called bi-functional mechanism. <sup>24,25</sup>

Many efforts have been even devoted to tuning morphology, structure, and composition of such bimetallic (e.g., PtRh) electrocatalysts to further improve the EOR performance. For example, subnanometer PtRh nanowires have been synthesized to improve the antipoisoning ability and to enhance C-C bond cleavage ability during the multistep reactions involved EOR. Compared with a commercial Pt/C electrocatalyst, subnanometer PtRh nanowires exhibited nearly three times higher activity than such a complicated EOR.<sup>26</sup> The introduction of Rh into a cubic PtRh alloy not only alleviated the CO<sub>ad</sub> poisoning on Pt surface, but also enhanced significantly a C1 pathway during EOR.<sup>23</sup> The Pt<sub>1</sub>Rh<sub>1</sub> alloy did show higher EOR ability than other catalysts with different proportions, independent of its morphology.<sup>26-28</sup> The PtRh electrocatalysts with a core-shell structure have been reported to drastically improve electrocatalytic EOR performance, relying on their surface compositions and structures.<sup>29,30</sup> Consequently, an Rh electrocatalyst is believed to increase the EOR activity as well as the selectivity of a C1 pathway during the EOR.

In addition to the above-discussed composition regulation of an electrocatalyst, it is well known that its activity also depends to a large extent on its structure and morphology. To example, hollow and porous nanostructures can offer higher electrocatalytic performance than solid nanoparticles, because the former provides more of abundant active sites, namely, bigger active surface areas and improved atomic utilization efficiency. In this context, hollow porous Rh nanoballs possessed enormous low-coordinated sites for the oxidation of CO, leading to promoted catalytic EOR performance. Porous PdRh nanobowls, mesoporous Rh nanoparticles, and hierarchical porous Rh nanosheets have shown improved electrocatalytic activity.

In this work, mesoporous RhPt electrocatalysts are synthesized using ascorbic acid (AA) as the reductant and hexadecylpyridinium chloride monohydrate (HDPC) as the surfactant. Benefiting from open/porous channels and a large active surface area, the RhPt<sub>0.6</sub>-MPS electrocatalyst with an optimized composition of Rh and Pt obviously features better electrocatalytic EOR performance in alkaline media than Pt-MPS and Rh-MPS electrocatalysts. Meanwhile, a C1 pathway occurs over the RhPt<sub>0.6</sub>-MPS surface with high efficiency. This is because the added Rh element not only accelerates C–C bond cleavage, but also facilitates the oxidation of the intermediates during the EOR.

## 2 | RESULTS AND DISCUSSION

The mesoporous RhPt electrocatalysts used in this study were synthesized (Figure 1A) through wet-chemical

26924552, 2022, 6, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/sus2.85 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [08/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**FIGURE 1** (A) Schematic illustration of the synthetic route to RhPt*x*-MPS (*x* = 0.3, 0.6, 0.9) electrocatalysts. (B) TEM, (C and D) HRTEM, (E) HAAD-STEM, and (F) STEM and the corresponding EDS mapping images of the RhPt0.6-MPS electrocatalyst. (G) The EDS line profiles of the RhPt0.6-MPS electrocatalyst are marked with a yellow line.

reduction of H2PtCl6 onto net-like mesoporous Rh nanoparticles[.37](#page-8-0) Mesoporous Rh-MPS and Pt-MPS electrocatalysts were also synthesized, as confirmed from their transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and highresolution TEM (HRTEM) images (Figure S1). The lattice spacings of Rh-MPS and Pt-MPS electrocatalysts are 0.220 and 0.226 nm, respectively. These values are indexed to an exposed (111) plane. From TEM and HRTEM images of the electrocatalysts with different rhodium–platinum atomic ratios, namely, RhPt0.9-MPS (Figure S2A,B), RhPt0.6-MPS (Figure 1B,C), and RhPt0.3-MPS (Figure S2C,D) electrocatalysts, one can clearly see their three-dimensional, net-like, and mesoporous structures. This is owing to the surfactant HDPC possessing a large hydrophilic head group. In other words, a strong interaction of HDPC with metal ions leads to the production of a mesostructured structure. In their HRTEM images, the lattice spacings of RhPt0.9-MPS (Figure S2E), RhPt0.6-MPS (Figure 1D), and RhPt0.3-MPS (Figure S2F) electrocatalysts are 0.224, 0.223, and 0.222 nm, respectively. They are located between the (111) plane of Rh (0.220 nm) and the (111) plane of Pt (0.227 nm). These electrocatalysts are also found to be composed of many small nanoparticles, generating their mesoporous structures. The example HAADF-STEM image of the RhPt0.6-MPS electrocatalyst (Figure 1E) further confirms it. From the TEM images of Pt-MPS,

**FIGURE 2** (A) XRD patterns as well as (B) Rh 3d and (C) Pt XPS spectra of Pt-MPS, RhPt*x*-MPS (*x* = 0.3, 0.6, 0.9), and Ph-MPS electrocatalysts

RhPt0.9-MPS, RhPt0.6-MPS, RhPt0.3-MPS, and Rh-MPS, their average particle sizes were further estimated (Figure S3). They are 39.2 ± 5.1, 45.5 ± 4.8, 48.8 ± 4.8, 47.5 ± 5.4, and 43.5 ± 4.8 nm, respectively. The variation of these particle sizes is quite reasonable, because the growth of Pt species along Rh nanoparticles increases the initial sizes of Rh nanoparticles. For example, the sizes of the RhPt*x*-MPS (*x* = 0.3, 0.6, 0.9) electrocatalysts are generally larger than that of Rh-MPS electrocatalyst, an indication of the successful growth of Pt layers onto Rh nanoparticles. The HADDF-STEM patterns and energy dispersive spectrometry (EDS) and cross-section line-profile analysis were further employed to support such a conclusion. In the HADDF-STEM patterns of the RhPt0.6-MPS electrocatalyst (Figure [1F\)](#page-2-0), the enrichment of Rh (purple) and Pt (yellow) is clearly observed in one particle. Meanwhile, Pt is seen to be dispersed in the pores. Such element distribution has been also found from EDS and cross-section line-profile analysis of this RhPt0.6-MPS electrocatalyst (Figure [1G\)](#page-2-0). Consequently, the formation of bimetallic mesoporous structure inside these RhPt*x*-MPS (*x* = 0.3, 0.6, 0.9) electrocatalysts results from the subsequent addition of Pt precursors into the Rh nanoparticle solutions, because Pt atoms can be deposited on many small nanoparticles, which form one bigger nanoparticle. Analysis of nitrogen sorption was performed to further examine the mesoporous structures of Rh-MPS, RhPt0.6-MPS, and Pt-MPS. Their adsorption–desorption isotherms all show mesoporous structure (Figure S4A). The Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) surface areas of Rh-MPS, RhPt0.6-MPS, and Pt-MPS are calculated to be 70.0, 88.3, and 90.1 m2 g–1 (Figure S4B). These samples all show pores of 29.0 nm, which belong to the pores of carbon supports (Figure S4C). The pore sizes of Rh-MPS and Pt-MPS are calculated to be 10.6 and 1.6 nm, respectively. The pore size of RhPt0.6-MPS is 2.1 nm, lower than that of Rh-MPS. The variation of pore size stemmed from the growth of Pt species along Rh nanoparticles, decreasing the initial pore size of Rh nanoparticles. Such a structure benefits the modulating electrocatalytic active sites and channel size.

The crystal structures of these electrocatalysts were investigated by means of X-ray diffraction (XRD). For all electrocatalysts (Figure 2A), four diffraction peaks are seen. They are assigned to (111), (200), (220), and (311) planes, respectively. The diffraction peaks of three RhPt*x*-MPS (*x* = 0.3, 0.6, 0.9) electrocatalysts appear between those for monometallic Pt (JCPDS no.04-0802) and monometallic Rh (JCPDS no.05-0685). RhPt electrocatalysts with different compositions are obtained. Note that the diffraction peaks shift to higher 2*θ* values once the Rh content is increased. In the XRD patterns of RhPt*x*-MPS (*x* = 0.3, 0.6, 0.9) electrocatalysts, the difference in diffraction peaks of Rh and Pt has not been observed. This is because a small amount of Pt species that is deposited on Rh nanoparticles makes their diffraction peaks mixed. To quantify the Pt/Rh molar ratios of different RhPt*x*-MPS (*x* = 0.3, 0.6, 0.9) electrocatalysts, they were investigated by means of coupled plasma mass spectroscopy (ICP-MS). The calculated Pt/Rh molar ratios are 1:0.9, 1:0.6, and 1:0.3 for the RhPt0.3-MPS, RhPt0.6-MPS, RhPt0.9-MPS electrocatalysts, respectively.

It is known that the activity of an electrocatalyst is closely related to its surface composition and electronic characteristics. The X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was then conducted on different electrocatalysts that were employed in this study. In the full-survey XPS spectra of Rh-MPS and RhPt*x*-MPS (*x* = 0.3, 0.6, 0.9) electrocatalysts (Figure S5), the signals of Rh element are clearly visible. The signals of Pt element are pronouncedly shown in the full-survey XPS spectra of Pt-MPS and RhPt*x*-MPS (*x* = 0.3, 0.6, 0.9) electrocatalysts. From the peak areas of Rh (Figure 2B) and Pt (Figure 2C) XPS peaks in these full-survey spectra, the Pt/Rh atomic ratios in these electrocatalysts were calculated. For the RhPt0.9-MPS, RhPt0.6- MPS, and RhPt0.3-MPS electrocatalysts, they are 0.89, 0.21, and 0.09, respectively. The Rh and Pt XPS spectra of the RhPt*x*-MPS (*x* = 0.3, 0.6, 0.9) were further analyzed. The Pt XPS peaks can be split into two doublets, which are associated with the Rh(0)/Rh(III) and Pt(0)/Pt(II) species, respectively. The Pt(II) and Rh(III) species probably originate from oxidation of the RhPt*x*-MPS electrocatalysts in

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**FIGURE 3** (A) CVs of Pt-MPS, Rh1.6Pt-MPS, and Rh-MPS electrocatalysts in 1 M CH3CH2OH + 1 M KOH at a scan rate of 50 mV s–1. (B) Comparison of mass activity (peak current density in the forward scan) of different electrocatalysts toward the EOR. (C) Stability of different electrocatalysts by means of cyclic voltammetry. (D) Chronoamperometric curves of different electrocatalysts toward the EOR in 1 M CH3CH2OH and 1 M KOH at a fixed potential of 0.7 V. (E) Prolonged current–time (*i*–*t*) curves of the Rh0.6Pt-MPS electrocatalyst in 1 M KOH solution for 600 s after periodic activation for up to five cycles

air. The Rh 3d spectra of the RhPt*x*-MPS electrocatalyst show Rh 3d5/2 and Rh 3d3/2 core levels. Compared with the binding energy of Rh(0) 3d5/2 of the Rh-MPS electrocatalyst, it is varied on different RhPt-MPS electrocatalysts. The most negative binding energy of Rh(0) 3d5/2 is 307.71 eV, which is on the RhPt0.6-MPS electrocatalyst. Meanwhile, the Pt(0) 4f7/2 spectrum of the RhPt0.6-MPS electrocatalyst shows a 0.22 eV positive shift when compared with that of a standard Pt(0) electrocatalyst. In these regards, electrons are expected to be transferred from Pt species to Rh species and meanwhile a positive shift of binding energy of Pt(0) 4f is expected to weaken the surface Pt-COads interaction[.38,39](#page-8-0)

The EOR activity of Pt-MPS, RhPt*x*-MPS (*x* = 0.3, 0.6, 0.9), and Ph-MPS electrocatalysts was then evaluated by means of cyclic voltammetry. From their cyclic voltammograms (CV) recorded at a scan rate of 50 mV s–1 in 1 M CH3CH2OH + 1 M KOH (Figure 3, Figure S6), one can tell these electrocatalysts feature varied mass activity (MA) toward the EOR. For example, three RhPt*x*-MPS electrocatalysts have different EOR activities. This is because they own different chemical compositions, although their morphology and pore structure are similar. Among these electrocatalysts, the RhPt0.6-MPS electrocatalyst shows the highest MA of the EOR and the lowest onset potential at a current density of 50 mA mg–1 (inset in Figure 3A). The onset potentials of the RhPt0.6-MPS (0.38 V), RhPt0.9- MPS (0.42 V), and RhPt0.3-MPS (0.41 V) electrocatalysts are lower than that (0.43 V) of the Pt-MPS electrocatalyst.

Therefore, the introduction of Rh species into Pt electrocatalysts reduces the overpotential of the EOR. The peak current densities of the oxidation peak in the forward scan were compared for all these electrocatalysts (Figure [3B\)](#page-4-0). The value of the RhPt0.6-MPS electrocatalyst is as high as 2846.0 mA mg–1, obviously higher than that of Pt-MPS (778.8 mA mg–1) and Rh-MPS (235.2 mA mg–1) electrocatalysts, as well as other electrocatalysts (Figure S6) such as RhPt-MPS, RhPt0.9-MPS (2236.0 mA mg–1) and RhPt0.3- MPS (2098.0 mA mg–1) electrocatalysts. Therefore, such excellent EOR performance is presumably attributed to the RhPt bimetallic structure with optimized ratio, where the interaction between the bimetallic interfaces leads to reduction in the poisoning by carbonaceous intermediates.

The durability of these electrocatalysts toward the EOR was checked by repeatedly recording CVs (Figure [3C\)](#page-4-0) and then chronoamperometric curves (*i*-*t* tests) at a fixed potential of 0.7 V (Figure [3C\)](#page-4-0). After 500 cycles, the MA of Pt-MPS (Figure S7), RhPt0.6-MPS (Figure S8), and Rh-MPS (Figure S9) electrocatalysts are 208.40, 1138.37, and 137.54 mA mg-1, respectively. The RhPt0.6-MPS electrocatalyst has the highest MA. More importantly, the RhPt0.6-MPS electrocatalyst has no obvious structural variation even after such a test, as confirmed from its TEM image taken after this test (Figure S10A). After EOR test, the XPS peak for the binding energy of the Rh(0) 3d5/2 and Pt(0) 4f7/2 is at 307.61 and 71.91 eV, respectively (Figure S10B,C). Moreover, the peak intensity of Rh(III) and Pt(II) make increases, indicating the oxidation of RhPt0.6-MPS during EOR tests. On the other hand, the catalytic stability of these three electrocatalysts was further evaluated by means of chronoamperometry. In their *i*–*t* curves recorded within 1600 s (Figure [3E\)](#page-4-0), rapid decays of the activity of these electrocatalysts are seen at the initial period, probably due to the poisoning of these electrocatalyst surfaces by as-formed intermediate species[.40,41](#page-8-0) The decay rate of the RhPt0.6-MPS electrocatalyst is slightly slower than other electrocatalysts, indicating that the intermediate species can be removed more quickly than other electrocatalysts. The stability of Rh0.6Pt-MPS electrocatalyst was further investigated by means of prolonged *i*–*t* test (Figure [3E\)](#page-4-0). The EOR stability test was performed by holding the electrode potential at 0.7 V for 600 s, followed by recording CVs in 1 M KOH solution for up to 10 cycles. As expected, the catalytic activity of the RhPt0.6-MPS electrocatalyst was quickly recovered only by replacing the electrolyte. The MA of refreshed RhPt0.6-MPS electrocatalyst can maintain 86.0% of its initial MA even after consecutive 500 continuous chronoamperometric tests. In conclusion, the RhPt0.6-MPS electrocatalyst has better EOR durability than other electrocatalysts. The excellent EOR performance of the RhPt0.6-MPS electrocatalyst is due to its pore structure and its optimal Pt/Rh atomic ratio. The pore structure produces lots of active sites and diffusion channels, while the electrons transfer between the Rh species and Pt species with an optimal atomic ratio weakens the adsorption of COads on the Pt species.

To get insight into the active sites of these electrocatalysts for the EOR, their electrochemically active surface areas (ECSAs)[42](#page-8-0) were measured by means of CO-stripping measurements, instead of *H*upd measurements. The latter method might create inaccurate estimation of ECSAs in our case, as the *H*upd for Pt-based electrocatalysts is seriously affected by electronic properties of Pt, rather than COad. [43](#page-8-0) In the obtained CO stripping curves in 1 M KOH solution (Figure [4A,](#page-6-0) Figure S11), an obvious CO oxidation peak appears in the first scanning cycle, but disappears in the second cycle. Therefore, this oxidation peak is caused by the adsorbed CO (COads) on the surface of these electrocatalysts. By use of the integrated areas of these oxidation waves, the ECSAs of these electrocatalysts were calculated. The ECSAs of RhPt0.6-MPS, RhPt0.9-MPS, RhPt0.3-MPS, Rh-MPS, and Pt-MPS electrocatalysts (Figure S12) are 109.31, 103.81, 110.00, 116.74, and 35.14 m2 g–1, respectively. The RhPt-MPS electrocatalyst has quite similar ECSAs, resulting from their almost same structures. The RhPt0.6-MPS electrocatalyst has the highest catalytic activity (2.60 mA cm–2) (Figure S13), which is 1.17-, 1.21-, 1.36-, and 13-times higher than that of Pt-MPS (2.22 mA cm–2), RhPt0.9-MPS (2.15 mA cm–2), RhPt0.3-MPS (1.91 mA cm–2), and Rh-MPS (0.20 mA cm–2) electrocatalysts, respectively. These values again prove that the introduction of Rh species into Pt electrocatalysts effectively boosts the EOR kinetic. Note that in addition to acquiring an ECSA of an electrocatalyst, the CO-stripping voltammetry can be employed to evaluate the poisoning tolerance of an electrocatalyst[,44](#page-8-0) for CO-like intermediate species that might give rise to poisoning of active sites during the EOR[.45](#page-8-0) All RhPt-MPS electrocatalysts have lower potentials than the Pt-MPS electrocatalyst. The RhPt0.6-MPS electrocatalyst has exhibited lower oxidation potentials than RhPt0.9-MPS, RhPt0.3-MPS, Rh-MPS, and Pt-MPS electrocatalysts (Figure S11), indicating reduced affinity to CO molecules. Consequently, the introduction of Rh species into Pt electrocatalysts effectively adjusts Pt electronic structures and it eventually gains higher poisoning tolerance during the EOR, which results in excellent activity and stability.

To further explain the charge-transfer kinetic of the EOR on these electrocatalysts, their linear sweep voltammograms (LSVs) were recorded (Figure S14) and corresponding Tafel plots were derived (Figure S15). The RhPt0.6-MPS electrocatalyst has a smaller Tafel plot (75 mV dec–1) than RhPt0.9-MPS (89 mV dec–1) and RhPt0.3-MPS (82 mV dec–1) electrocatalysts. Therefore, it owns the highest electrocatalytic oxidation rate for EOR. The Tafel slope of three

<span id="page-6-0"></span>FIGURE 4 (A) Preabsorbed  $CO_{ads}$  stripping CVs of different electrocatalysts in Ar-saturated 1 M KOH solution at a scan rate of 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. (B) Tafel plot for different electrocatalysts, based on their LSVs recorded, at a scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. (C) Nyquist plots were recorded at an open circuit potential of 0.52 V for different electrocatalysts.

RhPt<sub>x</sub>-MPS (x = 0.3, 0.6, 0.9) electrocatalysts (Figure 4B) is smaller than that of Pt-MPS (168 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) and Rh-MPS (110 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) electrocatalysts. The addition of Rh species does accelerate the charge-transfer kinetics of the EOR.

The charge-transfer kinetics of the EOR was further studied by comparing the activities of these electrocatalysts at different scan rates. The mass activity of Pt-MPS, RhPt<sub>0.6</sub>-MPS, and Rh-MPS electrocatalysts is increased as a function of scan rate, that is, their oxidation peak current densities in the forward scan are linearly enhanced as a function of the square roots of scan rates (Figure S16), suggesting diffusion-driven electrode processes. The RhPt<sub>0.6</sub>-MPS electrocatalyst has the highest slope (203 mA  $s^{1/2}$  mg<sup>-1</sup> mV<sup>-1/2</sup>), which is 5.2-times higher than the Pt-MPS electrocatalyst and 10.15-times higher than the Rh-MPS electrocatalyst. This suggests that RhPt<sub>0.6</sub>-MPS has the most optimized electron-transfer kinetics due to the optimized electronic structure. Electrochemical impendence spectroscopy (EIS) also was used to probe EOR kinetics and provide the indicative information for the EOR activity. Judged from the recorded Nyquist plots (Figure 4C, Figure S17), the RhPt<sub>0.6</sub>-MPS electrocatalyst exhibits smaller arc diameters than other electrocatalysts. This tendency indicates that it has the highest conductivity and the smallest electron-transfer resistance. These Nyquist plots were further fitted with

a circuit model (inset in Figure 4C), which consists of a solution resistance ( $R_1$ ), a charge-transfer resistance ( $R_2$ ), and a constant phase (CPE<sub>1</sub>). The  $R_2$  value of the RhPt<sub>0.6</sub>-MPS is 334.2  $\Omega$ , which is the smallest when compared with that of RhPt<sub>0.9</sub>-MPS (342.8  $\Omega$ ), RhPt<sub>0.3</sub>-MPS (876.3  $\Omega$ ), Pt-MPS (4494  $\Omega$ ), and Rh-MPS (1608  $\Omega$ ) electrocatalysts. The fast charge-transfer rate of the RhPt<sub>0.6</sub>-MPS electrocatalyst during the EOR is assumed to its optimal electronic effect.

Finally, the EOR selectivity of RhPt<sub>0.6</sub>-MPS, Pt-MPS, and Rh-MPS electrocatalysts was investigated. The electrolytes after the EOR experiments were examined by means of nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. In the <sup>1</sup>H NMR spectra (Figure 5), the main  $C_2$  product is acetic acid ( $\delta$  = 1.73 ppm), instead of acetaldehyde. According to the content of acetic acid, the selectivity of the EOR on these electrocatalysts to C1 products was assessed. Other characteristics are correlated with  $H_2O$  ( $\delta = 4.71$  ppm), ethanol ( $\delta = 1.01$  ppm for CH<sub>3</sub>(t) and  $\delta = 3.43$  ppm for CH<sub>2</sub>(q)), and internal standard dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO,  $\delta$  = 4.71 ppm). The corresponding area ratio of the peaks of acetic acid to DMSO on the RhPt<sub>0.6</sub>-MPS electrocatalyst is 1.44, which is lower than Pt-MPS (2.09) and Rh-MPS (1.81) electrocatalysts. This result proves that the RhPt<sub>0.6</sub>-MPS electrocatalyst has the highest C-C cleavage efficiency.

On these electrocatalysts, methanol electrochemical oxidation (MOR) tests were conducted and compared with

<span id="page-7-0"></span>FIGURE 5 <sup>1</sup>H NMR of the electrolytes after the EOR using (A) Pt-MPS, (B) RhPt<sub>0.6</sub>-MPS, and (C) Rh-MPS electrocatalysts

the EOR. As the MOR involves dehydrogenation, not C—C cleavage, it can be also employed as an indicator to reveal C—C cleavage ability of an electrocatalyst. The MOR activity of the RhPt<sub>0.6</sub>-MPS, Pt-MPS, and Rh-MPS electrocatalysts was evaluated by cyclic voltammetry measurements in 1 M KOH and 1 M CH<sub>3</sub>OH at a scan rate 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup> (Figure S18). The RhPt<sub>0.6</sub>-MPS electrocatalyst has a lower MOR MA than the Pt-MPS electrocatalyst. Obviously, a huge drop between MOR and EOR occurs in RhPt<sub>0.6</sub>-MPS and Pt-MPS electrocatalysts. Higher EOR performance on the RhPt<sub>0.6</sub>-MPS electrocatalyst is attributed to the synergistic effect of Pt and Rh species, which improves either the ability of dehydrogenation or C—C cleavage.

## 3 | CONCLUSIONS

In summary, mesoporous RhPt electrocatalysts with different compositions have been synthesized and further applied for highly active and durable EOR. The optimized RhPt<sub>0.6</sub>-MPS shows enhanced activity than Pt-MPS and Rh-MPS electrocatalysts, resulting from its unique morphology and composition. It is believed that the mesoporous structure and optimal ratio of Rh and Pt species not only alleviate the poisoning effect, but also enhance the C1 pathway selectivity during the EOR. This work provides a guidance to design mesoporous bimetallic electrocatalysts to achieve efficient alcohol oxidation and will eventually promote the development of DEFCs and beyond.

## **ACKNOWLEDGMENTS**

This work was supported by Shanxi Province Science Foundation (General Program: 20210302124446), Basic Research Project from Institute of Coal Chemistry, CAS (SCJC-HN-2022-17), Foundation of State Key Laboratory of Coal Conversion (2022BWZ006), and Foundation of State Key Laboratory of High-efficiency Utilization of Coal and Green Chemical Engineering (Grant Number: 2022-K71).

## CONFLICT OF INTEREST

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## DATA AVAILABILITY STATEMENT

The data supporting the findings of this study are available within the article and the Supporting Information file. The data are available on request from the corresponding authors.

#### ORCID

Nianjun Yang https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5558-2314

#### REFERENCES

- Chow J, Kopp RJ, Portney PR. Energy resources and global development. Science. 2003;302(5650):1528-1531.
- Jing H, Zhu P, Zheng X, Zhang Z, Wang D, Li Y. Theoryoriented screening and discovery of advanced energy transformation materials in electrocatalysis. *Adv Powder Mater*. 2022;1(1):100013.
- Kou Z, Wang K, Liu Z, et al. Recent advances in manifold exfoliated synthesis of two-dimensional non-precious metal-based nanosheet electrocatalysts for water splitting. *Small Struct*. 2021;3(1):2100153.
- Yu EH, Krewer U, Scott K. Principles and materials aspects of direct alkaline alcohol fuel cells. *Energies*. 2010;3(8):1499-1528.
- Kim I, Han OH, Chae SA, et al. Catalytic reactions in direct ethanol fuel cells. Angew Chem Int Ed Engl. 2011;50(10):2270-2274.
- Seh ZW, Kibsgaard J, Dickens CF, Chorkendorff I, Nørskov JK, Jaramillo TF. Combining theory and experiment in electrocatalysis: insights into materials design. *Science*. 2017;355(6321):eaad4998.
- Akhairi MAF, Kamarudin SK. Catalysts in direct ethanol fuel cell (DEFC): an overview. *Int J Hydrogen Energy*. 2016;41(7):4214-4228.
- Lamy C, Lima A, LeRhun V, Delime F, Coutanceau C, Léger JM. Recent advances in the development of direct alcohol fuel cells (DAFC). J Power Sources. 2002;105(2):283-296.
- 9. Kang YQ, Xue Q, Zhao Y, Li XF, Jin PJ, Chen Y. Selective etching induced synthesis of hollow Rh nanospheres electrocatalyst for alcohol oxidation reactions. *Small.* 2018;14(29):1801239.
- 10. Liang Z, Song L, Deng S, et al. Direct 12-electron oxidation of ethanol on a ternary Au(core)-PtIr(shell) electrocatalyst. *J Am Chem Soc.* 2019;141(24):9629-9636.
- Fu X, Wan C, Zhang A, et al. Pt<sub>3</sub>Ag alloy wavy nanowires as highly effective electrocatalysts for ethanol oxidation reaction. *Nano Res.* 2020;13(5):1472-1478.

- <span id="page-8-0"></span>Zhang G, Zhang Z. Ir<sub>3</sub>Pb alloy nanodendrites with high performance for ethanol electro-oxidation and their enhanced durability by alloying trace Au. *Inorg Chem Front*. 2020;7(11):2231-2240.
- 13. Xiong L, Sun Z, Zhang X, et al. Octahedral gold-silver nanoframes with rich crystalline defects for efficient methanol oxidation manifesting a CO-promoting effect. *Nat Commun*. 2019;10(1):3782.
- Lin H, Muzzio M, Wei K, et al. PdAu alloy nanoparticles for ethanol oxidation in alkaline conditions: enhanced activity and C1 pathway selectivity. ACS Appl Energy Mater. 2019;2(12):8701-8706
- 15. Zhu Y, Bu L, Shao Q, Huang X. Structurally ordered  $Pt_3Sn$  nanofibers with highlighted antipoisoning property as efficient ethanol oxidation electrocatalysts. *ACS Catal.* 2020;10(5):3455-3461.
- Vigier F, Rousseau S, Coutanceau C, Leger JM, Lamy C. Electrocatalysis for the direct alcohol fuel cell. *Top Catal*. 2006;40(1-4):111-121.
- 17. Xia XH, Liess HD, Iwasita T. Early stages in the oxidation of ethanol at low index single crystal platinum electrodes. *J Electroanal Chem.* 1997;437(1-2):233-240.
- 18. Lan B, Wang QL, Ma ZX, et al. Efficient electrochemical ethanol-to-CO2 conversion at rhodium and bismuth hydroxide interfaces. *Appl Catal B*. 2022;300: 120728.
- 19. Fu X, Zhao Z, Wan C, et al. Ultrathin wavy Rh nanowires as highly effective electrocatalysts for methanol oxidation reaction with ultrahigh ECSA. *Nano Res.* 2018;12(1):211-215.
- Zhu C, Lan B, Wei RL, Wang CN, Yang YY. Potential-dependent selectivity of ethanol complete oxidation on rh electrode in alkaline media: a synergistic study of electrochemical ATR-SEIRAS and IRAS. ACS Catal. 2019;9(5):4046-4053.
- 21. Han SH, Liu HM, Chen P, Jiang JX, Chen Y. Porous trimetallic PtRhCu cubic nanoboxes for ethanol electro-oxidation. *Adv Energy Mater.* 2018;8(24):1801326.
- 22. de Souza JPI, Queiroz SL, Bergamaski K, Gonzalez ER, Nart FC. Electro-oxidation of ethanol on Pt, Rh, and PtRh electrodes. A study using DEMS and in-situ FTIR techniques. *J Phys Chem B*. 2002;106(38):9825-9830.
- Rao L, Jiang YX, Zhang BW, Cai YR, Sun SG. High activity of cubic PtRh alloys supported on graphene towards ethanol electro-oxidation. *Phys Chem Chem Phys.* 2014;16(27):13662-13671.
- 24. Bai S, Xu Y, Cao K, Huang X. Selective ethanol oxidation reaction at the Rh-SnO<sub>2</sub> interface. *Adv Mater.* 2021;33(5):e2005767.
- 25. Yin C, Li Q, Zheng J, et al. Progress in regulating electronic structure strategies on Cu-based bimetallic catalysts for CO<sub>2</sub> reduction reaction. *Adv Powder Mater.* 2022;1(4):100055.
- 26. Zhu Y, Bu L, Shao Q, Huang X. Subnanometer PtRh nanowire with alleviated poisoning effect and enhanced C—C bond cleavage for ethanol oxidation electrocatalysis. ACS Catal. 2019;9(8):6607-6612.
- Bai J, Xiao X, Xue YY, et al. Bimetallic platinum-rhodium alloy nanodendrites as highly active electrocatalyst for the ethanol oxidation reaction. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2018;10(23):19755-19763.
- 28. Zhu F, Tu K, Huang L, et al. High selectivity PtRh/RGO catalysts for ethanol electro-oxidation at low potentials: enhancing the efficiency of CO2 from alcoholic groups. *Electrochim Acta*. 2018;292:208-216.

- Li P, Liu K, Ye J, et al. Facilitating the C—C bond cleavage on sub-10 nm concavity-tunable Rh@Pt core–shell nanocubes for efficient ethanol electro-oxidation. *J Mater Chem A*. 2019;7(30):17987-17994.
- 30. Liu K, Wang W, Guo P, et al. Replicating the defect structures on ultrathin Rh nanowires with Pt to achieve superior electrocatalytic activity toward ethanol oxidation. *Adv Funct Mater*. 2019;29(2):1806300.
- 31. Wang ZD, Gan Y, Mai YL, et al. Synthesis of ordered Pt nanocube arrays directed by block copolymer nanotemplate and their potential on ethanol oxidation reaction. *Anal Chem.* 2020;92(12):8046-8050.
- Pan J, Yu S, Jing Z, et al. Electrocatalytic hydrogen evolution reaction related to nanochannel materials. Small Struct. 2021;2(10):2100076.
- Zhou M, Guo J, Fang J. Nanoscale design of Pd-based electrocatalysts for oxygen reduction reaction enhancement in alkaline media. Small Struct. 2022;3(2):2100188.
- Zhang J, Jiang Y, Shi S, et al. Hollow porous rhodium nanoballs. Chem Commun. 2019;55(34):4989-4992.
- Li Z, Chen Y, Fu G, et al. Porous PdRh nanobowls: facile synthesis and activity for alkaline ethanol oxidation. *Nanoscale*. 2019;11(6):2974-2980.
- 36. Jiang B, Li C, Dag O, et al. Mesoporous metallic rhodium nanoparticles. *Nat Commun*. 2017;8(1):15581.
- 37. Guo Y, Chen S, Li Y, Wang Y, Zou H, Tong X. Pore structure dependent activity and durability of mesoporous rhodium nanoparticles towards the methanol oxidation reaction. *Chem Commun*. 2020;56(32):4448-4451.
- 38. Bin E, Shao Q, Bu L, Bai S, Li Y, Huang X. Ordered PtPb/Pt core/shell nanodisks as highly active, selective, and stable catalysts for methanol reformation to H<sub>2</sub>. *Adv Energy Mater*. 2018;8(16):1703430.
- Wakisaka M, Mitsui S, Hirose Y, Kawashima K, Uchida H, Watanabe M. Electronic structures of Pt-Co and Pt-Ru alloys for CO-tolerant anode catalysts in polymer electrolyte fuel cells studied by EC-XPS. *J Phys Chem B*. 2006;110(46):23489-23496.
- Li H, Wu H, Zhai Y, Xu X, Jin Y. Synthesis of monodisperse plasmonic Au core–Pt shell concave nanocubes with superior catalytic and electrocatalytic activity. ACS Catal. 2013;3(9):2045-2051.
- 41. Wang J, Zhang J, Liu G, et al. Crystal phase-controlled growth of PtCu and PtCo alloys on 4H Au nanoribbons for electrocatalytic ethanol oxidation reaction. *Nano Res.* 2020;13(7):1970-1975.
- 42. Ren G, Zhang Z, Liu Y, et al. One-pot solvothermal preparation of ternary PdPtNi nanostructures with spiny surface and enhanced electrocatalytic performance during ethanol oxidation. *J Alloys Compd.* 2020;830:154671.
- 43. van der Vliet DF, Wang C, Li D, et al. Unique electrochemical adsorption properties of Pt-skin surfaces. *Angew Chem Int Ed Engl.* 2012;51(13):3139-3142.
- 44. Yang H, Yu Z, Li S, Zhang Q, Jin J, Ma J. Ultrafine palladium-gold-phosphorus ternary alloyed nanoparticles anchored on ionic liquids-noncovalently functionalized carbon nanotubes with excellent electrocatalytic property for ethanol oxidation reaction in alkaline media. *J Catal.* 2017;353:256-264.
- Ahmad YH, Mohamed AT, Alashraf A, et al. Highly porous PtPd nanoclusters synthesized via selective chemical etching

as efficient catalyst for ethanol electro-oxidation. *Appl Surf Sci*. 2020;508:145222.

# **SUPPORTING INFORMATION**

Additional supporting information can be found online in the Supporting Information section at the end of this article.

**How to cite this article:** Yang S, Yang X, Cui X, et al. High C–C cleavage efficiencies of ethanol oxidation reaction on mesoporous RhPt electrocatalysts. *SusMat*. 2022;2:689–698. <https://doi.org/10.1002/sus2.85>