---
source: Yu 等 - 2024 - Electronic and Geometric Effects Endow PtRh Jagged Nanowires with Superior Ethanol Oxidation Catalys.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 75.495s
generated: 2026-01-09T05:26:06.477544Z
---

(EOR) at the anode proceeds in two pathways, i.e., the complete oxidation pathway (C1 pathway) with the release of 12 electrons and 4-electron incomplete oxidation pathway (C2 pathway) with CH3CHO and CH3COOH as main products.[1–2] The main hindrance to large-scale application of DE-FCs, i.e., the C─C bond splitting in the C1 pathway to generate CO2, remains challenging for the time being, which necessitates the pursuit of highly efficient catalysts with faster EOR kinetics.[3] Besides, the high coverage of poisonous CO accumulated through dehydrogenation blocks catalytic active sites and prevents further ethanol adsorption on the catalyst surface.[4] The introduction of oxophilic metals (Rh, Ir, Sn, etc.) is considered as a feasible solution since they promote C─C bond splitting at lower potentials.[3,5] On the other hand, the incorporation of oxophilic metals weakens the CO binding strength via electronic modulation and facilitates the oxidative

# **Electronic and Geometric Effects Endow PtRh Jagged Nanowires with Superior Ethanol Oxidation Catalysis**

*Renqin Yu, Ruiwen Shao, Fanghua Ning, Yaodong Yu, Jing Zhang, Xian-Yin Ma,\* Rongying Zhu, Menggang Li, Jianping Lai, Yufeng Zhao, Lingyou Zeng,\* Jiujun Zhang, and Zhonghong Xia\**

**Complete ethanol oxidation reaction (EOR) in C1 pathway with 12 transferred electrons is highly desirable yet challenging in direct ethanol fuel cells. Herein, PtRh jagged nanowires synthesized via a simple wet-chemical approach exhibit exceptional EOR mass activity of 1.63 A mgPt<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and specific activity of 4.07 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, 3.62-fold and 4.28-folds increments relative to Pt/C, respectively. High proportions of 69.33% and 73.42% of initial activity are also retained after chronoamperometric test (80 000 s) and 1500 consecutive potential cycles, respectively. More importantly, it is found that PtRh jagged nanowires possess superb anti-CO poisoning capability. Combining X-ray absorption spectroscopy, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy as well as density functional theory calculations unveil that the remarkable catalytic activity and CO tolerance stem from both the Rh-induced electronic effect and geometric effect (manifested by shortened Pt**─**Pt bond length and shrinkage of lattice constants), which facilitates EOR catalysis in C1 pathway and improves reaction kinetics by reducing energy barriers of rate-determining steps (such as \*CO** → **\*COOH). The C1 pathway efficiency of PtRh jagged nanowires is further verified by the high intensity of CO2 relative to CH3COOH/CH3CHO in infrared reflection absorption spectroscopy.**

> desorption of poisonous CO on adjacent Pt sites by generating hydroxyl species at lower potentials. The high resistance of Rh and Ir to acid etching serves to improve long-term stability of ethanol oxidation catalysis.[6] It is found that when comparing Rh and Ir, the latter appears to be more inclined to segregate on the surface of the catalyst.[1] As such, the high content and high oxophilicity of surface Ir usually results in lessened adsorption of ethanol molecules at high potentials.[3]

#### **1. Introduction**

Direct ethanol fuel cells (DEFCs) with ethanol as alternative fuels to hydrogen possess multiple advantages, such as high energy density (≈8 kWh kg<sup>−</sup>1) of ethanol, convenient storage and transport, and pollution-free feature.[1] The ethanol oxidation reaction

R. Yu, F. Ning, J. Zhang, R. Zhu, Y. Zhao, J. Zhang, Z. Xia Institute for Sustainable Energy College of Sciences Shanghai University Shanghai 200444, China E-mail: [10011493@shu.edu.cn](mailto:10011493@shu.edu.cn)

R. Shao

Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Intelligent Robots and Systems and Institute of Engineering Medicine Beijing Institute of Technology

Beijing 100081, China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under<https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202305817>

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202305817**

Y. Yu, J. Lai

College of Chemistry and Molecular Engineering Qingdao University of Science and Technology Qingdao, Shandong 266042, China

X.-Y. Ma

Collaborative Innovation Center of Chemistry for Energy Materials

Department of Chemistry Fudan University Shanghai 200438, China

E-mail: [ma\\_xianyin@fudan.edu.cn](mailto:ma_xianyin@fudan.edu.cn)

M. Li, L. Zeng

School of Materials Science and Engineering

Peking University Beijing 100871, China E-mail: [zengly@pku.edu.cn](mailto:zengly@pku.edu.cn) **[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

Rational design of nanostructured alcohol oxidation electrocatalysts with tailorable morphologies, compositions, and dimensions has been extensively reported.[7] The mixed-dimensional Pt-Ni nanochains composed of alternating polyhedra and backbone nanowires exhibit exceptional alcohol oxidation activities. The anisotropic nanostructures integrate the active (111) facets on the polyhedra with interfacial engineering and ordered linking of the polyhedra, which gives rise to intrinsic enhancement in catalytic performances.[8] Also, it was recently reported that PtNi bunched nanocages with abundant exposed active sites synthesized from acid etching of bunched nanospheres exhibit remarkable catalytic performances. The Ni-induced ligand effect, as well as compressive strain due to the Pt-skin structure and surface high-index facets, contributes to weakened binding toward oxygenated species and exceptional activity.[9] In particular, anisotropic nanowires with multiple atomic steps are seen as promising electrocatalysts since they integrate high exposure of catalytic active sites with high contact with supports.[6b,10] However, kinetic control of reduction and growth is difficult. Besides, there is still lack of understanding in terms of EOR enhancing mechanism for active catalysts reported so far. Herein, PtRh jagged nanowires[11] with remarkable activity and, more importantly, superb stability, were synthesized with wet-chemical approach. The mass activity and specific activity of PtRh jagged nanowires reach 1.63 and 4.07 A mgPt−1, respectively, which renders PtRh jagged nanowires among the most efficient EOR catalysts. The catalytic activity shows an exceptional 69.33% and 73.42% retention after a long period of 80 000 s and 1500 potential cycles, respectively. The X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) coupled with X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) demonstrate the low affinity of PtRh jagged nanowires toward CO adsorption due to electronic structure modulation. The theoretical analysis unambiguously reveals the Rh-induced electronic effect as well as geometric effect that not only improve C1 pathway selectivity but also reduce energy barriers of rate-determining steps for PtRh jagged nanowires. The geometric effect is confirmed by decreased Pt─Pt bond length in XAS analysis. The geometric effect contributing to superior alcohol oxidation catalysis has rarely been reported, and it can be further extended to elucidation of performance enhancing mechanism for various Pt-based alloys.

#### **2. Results and Discussion**

The PtRh jagged nanowires were synthesized in the presence of CTAC as structure-directing agent, glucose as moderate reducing agent and oleylamine as solvent and dispersing agent. The transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images present well-defined PtRh jagged nanowires with "spines" and protuberances on their two sides, and the mean diameter is 18.49 nm (**Figure 1**a,b; and Figure S1, Supporting Information). An enlarged picture of the protuberance reveals the surface enclosed by numerous high-index facets such as (331), (442), (553), etc. (Figure 1c,d). The Miller indices of the surface high-index facets can be determined by the vector superposition method within the parallelogram consisting of the facets, based on Steno's law wherein the interfacial angles between two corresponding crystallographic facets are constant (Figure S2, Supporting Information).[12] The high-index facets are more prone to be involved in EOR catalysis due to their high surface energies.[13] The average (11*̄*1), (1 *̄* 11), *̄* and (002) spacings in intensity profiles are determined to be 2.248, 2.252, and 1.948 Å, respectively, indicative of lattice compression as compared to 2.265 Å of (111) facet and 1.962 Å of (200) facet of pure Pt (Figure 1e). The (111) as main exposed facet of the well-organized nanostructure is confirmed by corresponding fast Fourier transform (FFT) patterns in the inset of Figure 1d. Similarly, the bulk parts of the jagged nanowires are bounded by (111) and (200) facets with compressively strained interplanar spacings of 0.224 and 0.196 nm, respectively. The scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) mapping profiles of the protuberance and the whole nanowire demonstrate the homogeneous distribution of Pt and Rh (Figure 1f). The elemental composition derived from energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) is 75.27:24.73, in proximity to the inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectroscopy (ICP-AES) result of 76.64:23.36 (Figure 1g). Figure 1h shows that based on Rietveld refinement, the powder X-ray diffraction (PXRD) pattern of PtRh jagged nanowires can be indexed to Pt face-centered cubic (*fcc*) structure in the Fm-3m space group. The visibly sharp diffraction peaks without impurity indicates the formation of Pt alloy with good crystallinity. The lattice constant of the structure is 3.874 Å, corresponding to a compressive strain of 1.25% compared to that of pure Pt [Joint Committee on Powder Diffraction Standards (JCPDS) No. 04-0802, 3.923 Å] due to the incorporation of Rh with lower lattice constant (JCPDS No. 05-0685, 3.803 Å). The XPS spectra suggest that Pt 4*f* binding energy of PtRh jagged nanowires (71.73 eV) shifts positively relative to Pt/C (71.50 eV) (Figure 1i; and Figure S3, Supporting Information). The increase in binding energies correlates with potential anti-CO poisoning characteristic due to the weakened electronic backdonation from Pt orbital to the antibonding \* orbital of CO molecule.[6b,14] The characteristic peaks at 307.61 and 309.91 eV can be ascribed to 3*d*5/2 orbitals of Rh(0) and Rh(III) (Figure 1j). Considering the interference of Rh 3*d*3/2 by Pt 4*d* signal, the Rh 3*d*5/2 peaks are chosen to assess the main chemical states. It is calculated that metallic Pt(0) and Rh(0) are the main species in PtRh jagged nanowires (Table S1, Supporting Information).

By fine-tuning heating protocol of the reaction, the PtRh multipod nanodendrites[15] were obtained with well-defined morphology (Figure S4, Supporting Information). The lattice spacing of the bulk portion of PtRh nanodendrite is 0.225 nm corresponding to the (111) facet, in agreement with the selected-area FFT result. The stepped surfaces enclosing nanodendrites are beneficial to EOR catalysis. Likewise, the STEM mapping and linescan profiles indicate that the constituent metals in PtRh multipod nanodendrites are homogeneously distributed. Consistent with ICP-AES result of 79.38:20.62, the STEM-EDS shows Pt:Rh molar ratio of 76.89:23.11. The slightly higher Pt concentration in PtRh nanodendrites can be explained as a result of gradual reduction of Pt precursors during the 30 min period of heating up to 210 °C. The reduction of Pt precursors and formation of Pt nuclei is preferred, due to the higher standard electrode potential of Pt<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>/Pt (1.19 V) relative to Rh<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>/Rh (0.76 V).[16] The result is also in accordance with the PXRD pattern, wherein the peak with maximum intensity is located at 39.84<sup>o</sup> and 39.94° for PtRh multipod nanodendrites and jagged nanowires, respectively. The marginally higher Rh content and lower Pt content in PtRh jagged nanowires brings about more positive peak shift relative to pure Pt (39.76o, JCPDS No. 04-0802). Consistently, the

**Figure 1.** Structural characterization of PtRh jagged nanowires. a) Representative TEM image of the jagged nanowires. The inset is the histogram of diameter distribution. b) Structural illustration of the jagged nanowire. c) Aberration-corrected STEM image of the protuberance of the jagged nanowire. d) Enlarged image of the red square in (c). The inset is corresponding FFT pattern. e) Integrated pixel intensities for (11*̄*1), (1 *̄* 11), and (002) facets *̄* corresponding to the three crystallographic orientations in (d). f) STEM elemental mapping. g) STEM-EDS spectra and corresponding Pt:Rh atomic ratio. h) Rietveld structural refinement of PtRh jagged nanowire. The a, b, and c denote lattice constants. *R*wp denotes *R*-weighted pattern. <sup>2</sup> denotes the degree of deviation. i,j) High-resolution XPS spectra of i) Pt 4*f* and j) Rh 3*d* in PtRh jagged nanowires.

Rietveld refinement of PtRh nanodendrites gives rise to the *fcc* lattice constant of 3.912 Å, a bit higher than that of PtRh jagged nanowires owing to the higher Pt content (Figure S5, Supporting Information). It corresponds to the 0.29% compressive strain. The geometric effect, i.e., compressive inner strain induced by variation of incorporated Rh with lower lattice constant, may play a key role and will be elucidated later. The metallic Pt(0) and Rh(0) are the main chemical states in PtRh nanodendrites, with Pt(0) 4f7/2 and Rh(0) 3d5/2 species being located at 71.64 and 307.50 eV, respectively (Figure S6, Supporting Information).

The electronic and local structures of the PtRh jagged nanowires (*j*-NWs) and nanodendrites (NDs) were further examined by XAS.[17] The white line intensity of X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) is usually seen as an indicator of *d* occupancy. Both PtRh jagged nanowires and PtRh nanodendrites show white line intensity close to that of Pt foil, suggesting that the metallic state dominates Pt species in the two catalysts (**Figure 2**a). Moreover, the higher white line intensity of PtRh jagged nanowires compared to nanodendrites demonstrates the higher degree of *d* vacancy, i.e., stronger tendency of 2*p*→5*d* transition.[7g,18] This is in agreement with the aforementioned positive chemical shift of Pt 4*f* orbitals in XPS spectra.[19] Accordingly, the average oxidation state increases from +0.21 of PtRh nanodendrites to +0.42 of PtRh jagged nanowires (Figure 2b). The atomic coordination environments of Pt were revealed by Fourier-transform extended X-ray absorption fine structure (FT-EXAFS) spectra. The hump-like dual peaks at about 2.2 and 2.9 Å match Pt–Pt contribution peaks of Pt foil (Figure 2c). The Pt– Pt interaction at 2.884 Å for PtRh nanodendrites is negatively shifted to 2.853 Å for PtRh jagged nanowires, corresponding to the geometric effect existing in jagged nanowires. Also, consistent with XRD results, the curve-fitting analysis of EXAFS gives rise to Pt─Pt bond lengths of 2.725 and 2.755 Å for PtRh jagged nanowires and nanodendrites, respectively (Figure S7 and

**Figure 2.** Local electronic/atomic structure characterizations. a) Pt *L*3-edge XANES spectra of Pt foil, PtO2, PtRh NDs, and PtRh *j*-NWs. b) The average Pt oxidation states. c) Corresponding *k*3-weighted FT-EXAFS spectra in *R* space. The inset shows the enlarged picture of the peak at ≈2.85 Å. d) Rh *K*-edge XANES profiles. e) WTs of Pt *L*3-edge EXAFS oscillations for Pt foil, PtO2, PtRh NDs, and PtRh *j*-NWs.

Table S2, Supporting Information). The resultant compressive strains relative to Pt foil (2.761 Å) are determined to be 1.3% for PtRh jagged nanowires and 0.2% for PtRh nanodendrites. The inner compressive strain enables weakened adsorption of CO and helps to balance between CO desorption and ethanol molecule adsorption. The XANES spectra at Rh *K*-edge prove the metallic state of Rh in both PtRh jagged nanowires and nanodendrites with white line intensity being away from Rh2O3 (Figure 2d). The FT-EXAFS spectra of PtRh jagged nanowires and nanodendrites at Rh *K*-edge exhibit two splitted peaks, corresponding to Rh-Pt coordination in Rh alloy (Figure S8 and Table S3, Supporting Information).[20] The wavelet transform (WT) analysis of Pt *L*3-edge EXAFS oscillations was further performed. As compared to Pt foil, the intensity maximum associated with Pt─Pt/Pt─Rh bond length in the red area exhibits greater downshift for PtRh jagged nanowires than for PtRh nanodendrites (Figure 2e). This corroborates the larger compressive strain in PtRh jagged nanowires.

To further examine the growth mechanism of PtRh jagged nanowires, a series of time-dependent experiments were carried out. The sample obtained just when the solution grows dark, denoted as the 0 min sample, exhibits the morphology of ultrathin nanowire with mean diameter of ≈1.70 nm (Figure S9, Supporting Information). The Pt:Rh composition is 92.29:7.71 at this moment, implying that Pt reduction dominates the incipient stage of growth. The size of 5 min sample shows a slight increase with more diameters concentrated at around 2.0 nm (Figure S10, Supporting Information). The Pt and Rh are shown to distribute uniformly in the nanowire, as evidenced by STEM mapping and linescan profiles. The STEM-EDS gives rise to the elemental composition of 80.66:19.34, indicative of gradual reduction of Rh precursors. Interestingly, the 30 min sample shows almost well-defined morphology of jagged nanowires with uniform distribution of Pt and Rh (Figure S11, Supporting Information). The Pt:Rh compositional ratio turns to be 75.20:24.80 at this stage, close to that of the 5 h sample in Figure 1. Similar phenomenon occurs to the 2 h sample with Pt:Rh composition of 76.51:23.49 (Figure S12, Supporting Information). It therefore demonstrates that Pt serves as the template for subsequent reduction of Rh precursors and the atomic interdiffusion contributes to the formation of PtRh jagged nanowires with structural and compositional homogeneity. The presence of preformed Pt seeds herein facilitates autocatalytic surface reduction.[21]

In light of the multiple advantages brought about by Rh incorporation, ethanol oxidation reaction was selected to assess the catalytic activities and stabilities of PtRh jagged nanowire catalyst and control samples. For comparison, by almost the same protocol except for the addition of W(CO)6, PtRh ultrathin nanowires (UNWs) were synthesized with uniform elemental distribution (Figure S13, Supporting Information). All

**Figure 3.** Ethanol oxidation performances of the electrocatalysts. a) CV profiles. b) Pt mass-normalized EOR curves. c) ECSA-normalized EOR curves. d) Corresponding histogram of mass and specific activities. e) EOR curves after *i–t* tests. f) EOR curves of PtRh *j*-NWs after different scanning cycles. g) Corresponding histograms of mass and specific activities of the electrocatalysts after different scanning cycles. h) CO stripping curves of the electrocatalysts.

supported catalysts were prepared by loading the as-synthesized nanowires on the Ketjen 300J carbon supports and subjecting them to heat treatment to remove excessive organic impurities. The cyclic voltammograms (CVs) were performed to acquire the electrochemically active surface areas (ECSAs) of these catalysts, which are determined to be 40.05, 46.68, 54.18, and 47.62 m<sup>2</sup> gPt<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> for PtRh jagged nanowires, PtRh nanodendrites, PtRh ultrathin nanowires, and commercial Pt/C, respectively (**Figure 3**a). The PtRh jagged nanowires show a marginally decreased ECSA, which is probably attributed to the larger size in the longitudinal direction. The catalytic current densities were normalized by Pt loadings and ECSAs to obtain mass activities and specific activities of EOR curves, respectively (Figure 3b,c). The PtRh jagged nanowires stand out among the four catalysts with superior mass activity of 1.63 A mgPt<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and specific activity of 4.07 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (Figure 3d; and Table S4, Supporting Information). In contrast, the mass activities of PtRh nanodendrites, PtRh ultrathin nanowires, and Pt/C are 1.45, 1.07, and 0.45 A mgPt−1, respectively. Also, the specific activity of PtRh jagged nanowires exhibits 1.31-fold, 2.04-fold, and 4.28-fold improvements relative to PtRh nanodendrites, PtRh ultrathin nanowires, and Pt/C, respectively. The PtRh jagged nanowires are among the most efficient Ptbased EOR catalysts evaluated in the same electrolyte in recent reports (Table S5, Supporting Information). The Rh introduction is shown to elevate EOR kinetics with electronic modulation.[22] Taking into account the similar stepped surface structures with high-index facets, the edge of PtRh jagged nanowires over nanodendrites can reasonably be attributed to the geometric effect as indicated by the bond length shrinkage of the former. The geometric effect will be elaborated later in the density functional theory (DFT) calculations section.

The stability is also an important parameter to evaluate EOR catalytic performances. The catalysts were subjected to the chronoamperometric test of 80 000 s at a constant potential of 0.65 V (Figure S14, Supporting Information). After the 80 000 s *i–t* tests, PtRh jagged nanowires exhibit EOR activity of www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.small-journal.com

1.13 A mg<sub>Pt</sub><sup>-1</sup>, corresponding to 69.33% retention of the initial activity (Figure 3e). The PtRh nanodendrites (1.07 A mg<sub>Pt</sub><sup>-1</sup>) retain 73.79% of the initial activity. In stark contrast, the EOR catalytic activities of PtRh ultrathin nanowires and Pt/C drop to 0.43 and 0.21 A mg<sub>Pt</sub><sup>-1</sup> with only 40.19% and 46.67% retention, respectively. The structural characterization after i-t test was conducted, wherein PtRh jagged nanowires together with PtRh nanodendrites retain their morphologies and uniform elemental distributions according to STEM mapping, line-scan, and EDS profiles, as opposed to the Ostwald ripening of Pt/C during stability test (Figures S15-S17, Supporting Information). The exceptional stability of PtRh jagged nanowires can also be manifested by applying 1500 potential cycles with three rounds at a scan rate of 200 mV s<sup>-1</sup> and determining the degradation rate of EOR activity after every 500 cycles. The EOR activity of PtRh jagged nanowires after 500, 1000, and 1500 cycles are 1.31, 1.19, and 1.16 A  $mg_{Pt}^{-1}$ , respectively (Figure 3f). The 73.42% of initial activity remains after 1500 consecutive CV cycles. In contrast, the activities of PtRh nanodendrites, PtRh ultrathin nanowires, and Pt/C after 1500 cycles are 0.99, 0.87, and 0.32 A  ${\rm mg_{Pt}}^{-1}$  respectively (Figure 3g; and Figure S18, Supporting Information). These results explicitly demonstrate that PtRh jagged nanowires are the highly efficient catalysts with remarkable EOR activity and long-term durability. It should be noted that PtRh jagged nanowires and nanodendrites are both active for EOR catalysis; the underlying rationale for their difference is worth examining further. In addition, CO stripping experiments were implemented to distinguish the tolerance to CO poisoning. The onset potentials for CO oxidation are 0.54, 0.57, 0.63, and 0.87 V for PtRh jagged nanowires, PtRh nanodendrites, PtRh ultrathin nanowires, and Pt/C, respectively (Figure 3h). Among the four catalysts, PtRh jagged nanowires also possess the lowest peak potential of CO oxidation (0.68 V). This result in conjunction with the XPS Pt 4f spectra demonstrate PtRh jagged nanowires possess superior anti-CO poisoning capability. Moreover, the catalytic performances of ethylene glycol oxidation reaction (EGOR) on the four catalysts were assessed (Figure S19, Supporting Information). The mass activity and specific activity of PtRh jagged nanowires reach 0.96 A mg<sub>Pt</sub><sup>-1</sup> and 2.39 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. They also exhibit the order of PtRh jagged nanowires > PtRh nanodendrites (0.87 A  $mg_{Pt}^{-1}$  and 1.87 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) > PtRh ultrathin nanowires (0.74 A  $mg_{Pt}^{-1}$  and 1.35 mA  $cm^{-2}$ ) > Pt/C (0.39 A  $mg_{Pt}^{-1}$  and 0.81 mA  $cm^{-2}$ ). Similarly, after chronoamperometric tests of 80 000 s, the EGOR activities of PtRh jagged nanowires, nanodendrites, ultrathin nanowires, and Pt/C are 0.52, 0.48, 0.34, and 0.18 A  $mg_{Pt}^{-1}$  respectively. It proves that PtRh jagged nanowires are well suitable for alcohol

The infrared reflection absorption spectroscopy (IRRAS) was implemented to examine the potential-dependent and time-dependent evolution of reaction intermediates for the electrocatalysts. For EOR catalysis, C1 pathway aims to completely oxidize ethanol molecule to CO<sub>2</sub>, while the incomplete oxidation of ethanol gives rise to CH<sub>3</sub>CHO and CH<sub>3</sub>COOH in C2 pathway. The intensity of characteristic peaks at 2345 cm<sup>-1</sup> assigned to CO<sub>2</sub> keeps increasing from 0.2 to 1.2 V (Figure 4a,c,d; and Table S6, Supporting Information).<sup>[1,23]</sup> One can observe that linearly-bonded CO species (CO<sub>1</sub>) at around 2040 cm<sup>-1</sup> arise even at 0.2 V (Figure 4b). The peaks located around 1354 and 1403 cm<sup>-1</sup> feature the CH<sub>3</sub> in-plane bending vibrations and O—C—O stretching

vibrations of adsorbed acetate species, respectively.  $^{[1,24]}$  The small peaks at  $\approx$ 2920 cm<sup>-1</sup> are ascribed to C–H stretching in CH<sub>3</sub>. [23,25] The integrated intensity of CO<sub>2</sub> keeps rising across the whole potential range (Figure 4e). The CO<sub>2</sub> intensity of PtRh *j*-NWs is slightly higher than that of PtRh NDs and considerably higher than that of Pt/C. As potential increases from 0.9 V, the intensity of CO<sub>1</sub> for PtRh j-NWs and PtRh NDs gradually diminishes, which means the CO<sub>2</sub> product generated from CO decreases (Figure 4f). The steady increase in CO<sub>2</sub> band intensity can therefore be attributed to the oxidation of adsorbed CH, fragments, although their wavenumber at around 425 cm<sup>-1</sup> cannot be detected within electrochemical infrared spectroscopy range (≈1000–3000 cm<sup>-1</sup> herein).<sup>[26]</sup> The oxidation of surface CH<sub>x</sub> at high potentials boosts CO<sub>2</sub> formation.<sup>[2,27]</sup> The peaks at 1720 cm<sup>-1</sup> represent C=O stretching of solution CH<sub>3</sub>COOH and CH<sub>3</sub>CHO which are hard to be distinguished from each other. As such, the representative peaks of C-O stretching of solution CH3COOH at 1281 cm<sup>-1</sup> are usually employed to assess the reaction pathway selectivity.[1,5c] For PtRh jagged nanowires, the CH3COOH signature peaks suggestive of competitive C2 pathway become visible at 0.7 V, comparable to PtRh nanodendrites; in comparison, Pt/C shows relatively lower potential at which CH<sub>3</sub>COOH forms (Figure 4g; and Figure S20, Supporting Information). Interestingly, the integrated intensity of CH<sub>3</sub>COOH for PtRh NDs increases faster than for PtRh j-NWs at higher potentials. Herein, it should be pointed out that the downward peak at 1639 cm<sup>-1</sup> assigned to the H-O-H deformation of interfacial H<sub>2</sub>O might interfere with the accurate quantification of total yield of C2 products (CH<sub>3</sub>CHO+CH<sub>3</sub>COOH).[4a,28] The enlarged picture of the infrared spectra at 1.2 V unequivocally demonstrates that PtRh jagged nanowires possess the highest band intensity of CO<sub>2</sub> relative to CH<sub>3</sub>COOH/CH<sub>3</sub>CHO (Figure 4h). The conclusion is substantiated by the rapidly growing CO2 bands of PtRh jagged nanowires and nanodendrites relative to Pt/C in time-dependent spectra collected from 8.30 to 170.43 s at 0.54 V (Figure 4i; and Figure S21, Supporting Information). All in all, the PtRh jagged nanowires show exceptional selectivity toward more efficient C1 reaction pathway.

DFT calculations were conducted in an attempt to shed light on EOR enhancing mechanism. The Pt(111) and Pt<sub>36</sub>Rh<sub>12</sub>(111) surfaces were modeled by employing a  $p(4 \times 4)$  three-atomic-layer slab. The atomic structure of Pt<sub>38</sub>Rh<sub>10</sub>(111) was established by substituting one Rh atom at the surface and one at the subsurface with Pt atoms (Figure S22, Supporting Information). The construction of Pt<sub>36</sub>Rh<sub>12</sub>(111) and Pt<sub>38</sub>Rh<sub>10</sub>(111) models corresponds to the shrinkage percentages of 1.62% and 0.36% for average Pt-Pt bond length relative to Pt(111), in line with experimental results. The partial density of states (PDOS) before and after Rh introduction were calculated. The incorporation of Rh results in sufficient *d*–*d* orbital couplings with Pt due to the high overlap of their d orbitals. The center of surface Pt d-states of  $Pt_{36}Rh_{12}(111)$  shifts away from -1.98 to -2.21 eV as a result of orbital hybridization (Figure 5a). Likewise, the Pt d-band center of Pt<sub>38</sub>Rh<sub>10</sub>(111) is shifted negatively to -2.10 eV relative to Fermi level. The Pt sites are usually considered to be responsible for ethanol dehydrogenation to CO formation, while Rh sites are preferred for C-C bond cleavage. [1,29] It is revealed in the PDOS of CO adsorption that the lowest-lying surface Pt d-band center of Pt<sub>36</sub>Rh<sub>12</sub>(111) may contribute to the weakest CO adsorption

**Figure 4.** IRRAS spectra recorded in 0.1 m HClO4 + 0.5 m ethanol solution. a) Potential-resolved spectra of PtRh *j*-NWs. b) Enlarged spectra from 0.2 to 0.7 V in (a). c) Potential-resolved spectra of PtRh NDs. d) Potential-resolved spectra of Pt/C. The variations of integrated intensities of e) CO2, f) COL, and g) CH3COOH bands with potentials for PtRh *j*-NWs, PtRh NDs, and Pt/C. h) IRRAS spectra for PtRh *j*-NWs, PtRh NDs, and Pt/C at 1.2 V. i) Real-time spectra of PtRh *j*-NWs with the temporal resolution of 10.13 s per spectrum.

energy (−2.03 eV), consistent with its remarkable anti-CO poisoning feature (Figure S23, Supporting Information). In contrast, the CO adsorption energies of Pt38Rh10(111) and Pt(111) are −2.09 and −2.10 eV, respectively. It is feasible to postulate that the Rh addition negatively shifts Pt *d*-band center of Pt38Rh10(111) due to the ligand effect, while the geometric effect, in which the slight increase in Rh content causes more compressively strained Pt─Pt bond length, accounts for further decrease in Pt *d*-band center in Pt36Rh12(111). In addition, the introduction of Rh with noticeably higher *d*-band centers (−1.57 eV for Pt36Rh12(111) and −1.54 eV for Pt38Rh10(111)) and more unoccupied states above Fermi level facilitates ethanol adsorption, as demonstrated by the free energy change from −0.39 eV (Pt(111)) to a more stable state of −0.61 eV (Pt36Rh12(111)). The metallic bonding inside Pt38Rh10(111) and Pt(111) is confirmed in the electron localization function (ELF) analysis with slight localization of electrons around Pt atoms for Rh-Pt pair (Figure 5b).

The free energy changes throughout the dehydrogenation, C─C bond-breaking and CO oxidation were then presented. The optimum EOR catalytic pathway is proposed: \*CH3CH2OH → \*CH3CHOH → \*CH3COH → \*CH3CO → \*CH2CO → \*CH2 + \*CO → \*CH2 + \*COOH → \*CH2 → \*CO → \*COOH → CO2(g) (Figure 5c; and Figures S24 and S25, Supporting Information). The corresponding atomic structures of various intermediate species were illustrated in Figure 5d. The selectivity-determining step, \*CH3CO → \*CH2CO, proceeds due to the higher energy barriers of the \*CH3CO → CH3COOH step, with Pt36Rh12(111) (1.20 eV) and Pt38Rh10(111) (1.24 eV) possessing higher barriers relative to Pt(111) (1.16 eV) (Figure S26, Supporting Information). As such, C1 pathway rather than C2 pathway is more inclined to occur on PtRh alloys as compared to Pt(111). The \*CH2CO → \*CH2 + \*CO step plays a key role for the C1 pathway. The activation energies of the step were calculated, the transition state with only one imaginary frequency being searched using the climbing image nudged elastic band (CI-NEB) method. The

Figure 5. DFT calculations. a) PDOS of  $Pt_{36}Rh_{12}$  and  $Pt_{38}Rh_{10}$  system. b) ELF analysis mapped for  $Pt_{36}Rh_{12}$  (111) and Pt (111) systems. c) Free energy diagrams of C1 pathway on  $Pt_{36}Rh_{12}$  (111) and Pt (111) systems. d) The atomic structures of various EOR intermediates on  $Pt_{36}Rh_{12}$  (111) surfaces. e) Comparison of the free energy changes of  $CH_2CO \rightarrow CH_2 + CO$  step for  $Pt_{36}Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12}$  and  $CH_3Rh_{12$ 

**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

lower activation energy for Pt36Rh12 (0.75 eV) relative to Pt(111) (0.98 eV) indicates in part the faster EOR reaction kinetics of the former structure (Figure 5e).[30] The rate-determining steps pertinent to CO oxidative desorption, i.e., \*CH2 + \*CO → \*CH2 + \*COOH and \*CO → \*COOH, have most positive free energy changes among all steps. The barriers of 0.90 and 0.92 eV are needed to be overcome to realize the \*CH2 + \*CO → \*CH2 + \*COOH transformation for Pt36Rh12(111) and Pt38Rh10(111), respectively, while the barrier is 0.98 eV for Pt(111) (Figure 5f). Likewise, the appreciably lower energy barriers of 0.88 eV for Pt36Rh12(111) and 0.90 eV for Pt38Rh10(111) in contrast with 1.07 eV for Pt(111) are required to enable \*CO → \*COOH step. This provides unequivocal evidence as to the higher EOR catalytic activities of two PtRh alloys. The PtRh jagged nanowires have an edge over PtRh nanodendrites since Pt36Rh12(111) possesses lower energy barriers of rate-determining steps compared to those of Pt38Rh10(111). The PDOS of COOH and corresponding COOH adsorption energies are presented in Figure S27, Supporting Information. The strengthened COOH adsorption energies of Pt36Rh12(111) (−1.32 eV) and Pt38Rh10(111) (−1.36 eV) relative to that of Pt (111) (−1.19 eV), coupled with attenuated CO adsorption by Pt36Rh12(111) and Pt38Rh10(111), contribute to CO destabilization (oxidation) and mitigate CO poisoning. Additional evidence comes from charge density difference profiles which show strong electronic interaction of \*COOH species with Pt(111) and Pt36Rh12(111) catalyst surfaces (Figure S28, Supporting Information). Interestingly, the binding of C atom by Pt and O atom by Rh give rise to 0.16e<sup>−</sup> charge transfer, higher than 0.14e<sup>−</sup> charge transfer achieved only by the binding of C by Pt. The Rh─O bond contributes to the stabilization of \*COOH and hence exceptional EOR catalytic activity.

## **3. Conclusions**

In summary, the PtRh jagged nanowires with uniform elemental distribution show remarkable EOR mass activity of 1.63 A mgPt<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and specific activity of 4.07 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and CO oxidation onset potential of 0.54 V. The PtRh jagged nanowires show 69.33% and 73.42% activity retention after 80 000 s *i–t* tests and 1500 potential cycles, respectively. The XAS and DFT analysis prove that electronic structure modulation due to Rh incorporation serves to improve EOR activity and anti-CO poisoning capability. More importantly, XAS, DFT, and IRRAS characterization unravel the role of geometric effect in enhancing the selectivity toward C1 pathway with suppressed generation of CH3COOH/CH3CHO and lowering kinetic energy barriers of rate-determining steps of EOR. The insight presented in this work can be extended to tunable synthesis of other Pt-based alcohol oxidation electrocatalysts.

#### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

### **Acknowledgements**

R.Y., R.S., and F.N. contributed equally to this work. This study was financially supported by Natural Science Foundation in Shanghai (No. 21ZR1424200). The authors thanked the photoemission BL14W1 and BL11B in the Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility (SSRF) and BL1W1B in the Beijing Synchrotron Radiation Facility (BSRF) for the help with characterizations. Also, the authors thank Shuangquan Qu (Beijing Institute of Technology) for constructive discussion in STEM characterizations.

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

#### **Keywords**

C1 pathway, electronic effect, ethanol oxidation reaction, geometric effect, PtRh jagged nanowires

> Received: July 11, 2023 Revised: September 4, 2023 Published online: October 9, 2023

16136829, 2024, 7, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202305817 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [08/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [1] M. Li, D. A. Cullen, K. Sasaki, N. S. Marinkovic, K. More, R. R. Adzic, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 132.
- [2] C. Zhu, B. Lan, R.-L. Wei, C.-N. Wang, Y.-Y. Yang, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 4046.
- [3] Q. Chang, S. Kattel, X. Li, Z. Liang, B. M. Tackett, S. R. Denny, P. Zhang, D. Su, J. G. Chen, Z. Chen, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 7618.
- [4] a) Y. Wei, Z. Mao, X.-Y. Ma, C. Zhan, W.-B. Cai, *J. Phys. Chem. Lett.* **2022**, *13*, 11288; b) M. Li, Z. Zhao, W. Zhang, M. Luo, L. Tao, Y. Sun, Z. Xia, Y. Chao, K. Yin, Q. Zhang, L. Gu, W. Yang, Y. Yu, G. Lu, S. Guo, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2103762.
- [5] a) C. V. S. Almeida, D. S. Ferreira, H. Huang, A. C. Gaiotti, G. A. Camara, A. E. Russell, K. I. B. Eguiluz, G. R. Salazar-Banda, *Appl. Catal., B* **2019**, *254*, 113; b) Y. Chen, J. Pei, Z. Chen, A. Li, S. Ji, H. Rong, Q. Xu, T. Wang, A. Zhang, H. Tang, J. Zhu, X. Han, Z. Zhuang, G. Zhou, D. Wang, *Nano Lett.* **2022**, *22*, 7563; c) A. Kowal, M. Li, M. Shao, K. Sasaki, M. B. Vukmirovic, J. Zhang, N. S. Marinkovic, P. Liu, A. I. Frenkel, R. R. Adzic, *Nat. Mater.* **2009**, *8*, 325; d) Y. Zhu, L. Bu, Q. Shao, X. Huang, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 3455.
- [6] a) Q. Chang, Y. Hong, H. J. Lee, J. H. Lee, D. Ologunagba, Z. Liang, J. Kim, M. J. Kim, J. W. Hong, L. Song, S. Kattel, Z. Chen, J. G. Chen, S.-Il Choi, *Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA* **2022**, *119*, e2112109119; b) W. Zhang, Y. Yang, B. Huang, F. Lv, K. Wang, N. Li, M. Luo, Y. Chao, Y. Li, Y. Sun, Z. Xu, Y. Qin, W. Yang, J. Zhou, Y. Du, D. Su, S. Guo, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1805833; c) Y. Zhu, L. Bu, Q. Shao, X. Huang, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 6607.
- [7] a) J. Bai, D. Liu, J. Yang, Y. Chen, *ChemSusChem* **2019**, *12*, 2117; b) N. Erini, V. Beermann, M. Gocyla, M. Gliech, M. Heggen, R. E. Dunin-Borkowski, P. Strasser, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. Eng.* **2017**, *56*, 6533; c) H. Li, M. Sun, Y. Pan, J. Xiong, H. Du, Y. Yu, S. Feng, Z. Li, J. Lai, B. Huang, L. Wang, *Appl. Catal., B* **2022**, *312*, 121431; d) P. Li, K. Liu, J. Ye, F. Xue, Y. Cheng, Z. Lyu, X. Liao, W. Wang, Q. Zhang, X. Chen, M. Liu, S. Xie, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 17987; e) Z. Liang, L. Song, S. Deng, Y. Zhu, E. Stavitski, R. R. Adzic, J. Chen, J. X. Wang, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 9629; f) K. Wang, H. Du, R. Sriphathoorat, P. K. Shen, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1804074; g) L. Zeng, Z. Zhao, F. Lv, Z. Xia, S.-Y. Lu, J. Li, K. Sun, K. Wang, Y. Sun, Q. Huang, Y. Chen, Q. Zhang, L. Gu, G. Lu, S. Guo, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 3822.

- [8] T. Xia, K. Zhao, Y. Zhu, X. Bai, H. Gao, Z. Wang, Y. Gong, M. Feng, S. Li, Q. Zheng, S. Wang, R. Wang, H. Guo, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2206508.
- [9] X. Tian, X. Zhao, Y.-Q. Su, L. Wang, H. Wang, D. Dang, B. Chi, H. Liu, E. J. M. Hensen, X. W. (D.) Lou, B. Y. Xia, *Science* **2019**, *366*, 850.
- [10] a) R. Zhu, R. Yu, K. Yin, S. Zhang, J. Chung-Yen Jung, Y. Zhao, M. Li, Z. Xia, J. Zhang, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2023**, *640*, 348; b) W. Xia, H. Cheng, S. Zhou, N. Yu, H. Hu, *J. Colloid. Interface Sci.* **2022**, *625*, 289.
- [11] "PtRh jagged nanowires" needs to be changed to "PtRh jagged nanowires (*j*-NWs)".
- [12] S. Sun, X. Zhang, J. Cui, S. Liang, *Nanoscale* **2020**, *12*, 16657.
- [13] Z. Quan, Y. Wang, J. Fang, *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2013**, *46*, 191.
- [14] G. Blyholder, *J. Phys. Chem.* **1964**, *68*, 2772.
- [15] "PtRh multi-pod nanodendrites" needs to be changed to "PtRh multipod nanodendrites (NDs)".
- [16] Z.-P. Zhang, W. Zhu, C.-H. Yan, Y.-W. Zhang, *Chem. Commun.* **2015**, *51*, 3997.
- [17] "The electronic and local structures of the PtRh jagged nanowires (j-NWs) and nanodendrites (NDs) were further examined by XAS." needs to be changed to "The electronic and local structures of the PtRh jagged nanowires and nanodendrites were further examined by XAS."
- [18] a) K. Jiang, B. Liu, M. Luo, S. Ning, M. Peng, Y. Zhao, Y.-R. Lu, T.-S. Chan, F. M. F. De Groot, Y. Tan, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 1743; b) K. L. Zhou, Z. Wang, C. B. Han, X. Ke, C. Wang, Y. Jin, Q. Zhang, J. Liu, H. Wang, H. Yan, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 3783.
- [19] M. Weinert, R. E. Watson, *Phys. Rev. B* **1995**, *51*, 17168.
- [20] Y. Zhang, G. Li, Z. Zhao, L. Han, Y. Feng, S. Liu, B. Xu, H. Liao, G. Lu, H. L. Xin, X. Huang, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2105049.

- [21] T.-H. Yang, S. Zhou, K. D. Gilroy, L. Figueroa-Cosme, Y.-H. Lee, J.-M. Wu, Y. Xia, *Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA* **2017**, *114*, 13619.
- [22] a) L.-X. Dai, X.-Y. Wang, S.-S. Yang, T. Zhang, P.-J. Ren, J.-Y. Ye, B. Nan, X.-D. Wen, Z.-Y. Zhou, R. Si, C.-H. Yan, Y.-W. Zhang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 11270; b) T. Sheng, Z.-W. Ma, S.-G. Sun, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2020**, *502*, 144093.
- [23] Y. Wang, M. Zheng, Y. Li, C. Ye, J. Chen, J. Ye, Q. Zhang, J. Li, Z. Zhou, X.-Z. Fu, J. Wang, S.-G. Sun, D. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. Eng.* **2022**, *61*, e202115735.
- [24] a) N. Erini, R. Loukrakpam, V. Petkov, E. A. Baranova, R. Yang, D. Teschner, Y. Huang, S. R. Brankovic, P. Strasser, *ACS Catal.* **2014**, *4*, 1859; b) N. S. Marinkovic, M. Li, R. R. Adzic, *Top. Curr. Chem.* **2019**, *377*, 11.
- [25] a) Y. Wang, M. Zheng, H. Sun, X. Zhang, C. Luan, Y. Li, L. Zhao, H. Zhao, X. Dai, J.-Y. Ye, H. Wang, S.-G. Sun, *Appl. Catal., B* **2019**, *253*, 11; b) Y. Wang, H. Zhuo, H. Sun, X. Zhang, X. Dai, C. Luan, C. Qin, H. Zhao, J. Li, M. Wang, J.-Y. Ye, S.-G. Sun, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *9*, 442.
- [26] a) S. C. S. Lai, S. E. F. Kleyn, V. Rosca, M. T. M. Koper, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2008**, *112*, 19080; b) Y.-Y. Yang, J. Ren, Q.-X. Li, Z.-Y. Zhou, S.-G. Sun, W.-B. Cai, *ACS Catal.* **2014**, *4*, 798.
- [27] R. B. Kutz, B. Braunschweig, P. Mukherjee, D. D. Dlott, A. Wieckowski, *J. Phys. Chem. Lett.* **2011**, *2*, 2236.
- [28] X.-Y. Ma, C. Ding, H. Li, K. Jiang, S. Duan, W.-B. Cai, *J. Phys. Chem. Lett.* **2020**, *11*, 8727.
- [29] D. Wu, K. Kusada, T. Yamamoto, T. Toriyama, S. Matsumura, S. Kawaguchi, Y. Kubota, H. Kitagawa, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 13833.
- [30] G. Henkelman, B. P. Uberuaga, H. Jónsson, *J. Chem. Phys.* **2000**, *113*, 9901.