---
source: Zhang 等 - 2025 - C‒C Bond Cleavage Driven by Lattice Oxygen during Ethanol Oxidation Process.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 34.078s
generated: 2026-01-09T05:28:28.146279Z
---

# **C‒C Bond Cleavage Driven by Lattice Oxygen during Ethanol Oxidation Process**

*Wen Zhang, Yingxiu Zhao, Jiayi Li, Yu Miao, Pengkai He, Zexing Wu, Yang Zhang, Guang-Rui Xu,\* and Lei Wang\**

**The capacity of C‒C bond cleavage determines the pathway selectivity during the ethanol oxidation process. Herein, ultra-thin monodisperse PdCo nanosheets with an average diameter of 33 nm are successfully synthesized and the interface of Pd-O-Co is further constructed due to the introduction of lattice oxygen. Due to their ultra-thin nanosheet structure, unique surface electronic structures driven by lattice oxygen, and alloying effect, the prepared PdCo/Pd-O-Co nanosheets (PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs) show excellent ethanol oxidation reaction (EOR) activity and stability. The mass activity and specific activity of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs are 12.43 A mg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and 22.01 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for EOR, which exceeded PdCo nanosheets, Pd nanosheets and commercial Pd black. In situ FTIR spectroscopy and theoretical calculation identified that lattice oxygen introduced after square-wave potential treatment can promote the cleavage of the C‒C bond. Through the introduction of lattice oxygen combined with lattice strain engineering, the PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs surface is optimized to promote the generation of strong p-d orbital hybridization, which led to the upward shift of the d-band center and the electron delocalization effect, effectively promoting the C‒C bond cleavage and improving the anti-poisoning ability.**

# **1. Introduction**

Direct alcohol fuel cells (DAFCs) have been proven to be one of the most promising energy conversion devices due to their high energy density, high conversion efficiency, abundant fuel sources, and low cost.[\[1\]](#page-7-0) However, the slow kinetics, intermediate poisoning, and incomplete oxidation still seriously suppress

W. Zhang, Y. Zhao, J. Li, Y. Miao, P. He, Z. Wu, Y. Zhang, G.-R. Xu, L. Wang Key Laboratory of Eco-chemical Engineering International Science and Technology Cooperation Base of Eco-chemical Engineering and Green Manufacturing College of Environment and Safety Engineering School of Material Science and Engineering Qingdao University of Science and Technology Qingdao 266042, P. R. China E-mail: [xugrui@gmial.com;](mailto:xugrui@gmial.com) [inorchem@126.com](mailto:inorchem@126.com) Z. Wu, L. Wang College of Chemistry and Molecular Engineering Qingdao University of Science and Technology Qingdao 266042, P. R. China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202421763>

**DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202421763**

the large-scale application of DAFCs, ultimately resulting in low efficiency of ethanol oxidation reaction (EOR).[\[2\]](#page-7-0) The wide application of noble metal catalysts is limited by their high price and scarcity.[\[3\]](#page-7-0) In order to reduce the cost of precious metal-based catalysts, maximizing the exposure of active sites is a cost-effective and friendly solution to improve the catalytic performance, and therefore many efforts have focused on improving the number of active sites of catalysts through structural modulation.[\[4\]](#page-7-0)

With the advantages of high porosity, large specific surface area, and abundant active sites, 2D nanosheets have become promising nanomaterials in electrocatalysis.[\[5\]](#page-8-0) However, due to the disordered stack of most 2D nanosheets, more exposed unsaturated atoms are covered, which in turn reduces the number of active sites and thus slows down the electrooxidation process.[\[6\]](#page-8-0) Dai et al. reported a catalyst of 2D noble metal nanosheets with mesoporous structures on the surface for improving atomic utilization

and structural stability, which showed excellent catalytic activity and stability for ethanol oxidation.[\[7\]](#page-8-0) Lai et al. prepared the ultra-thin 2D nanosheets with a high surface-area-to-volume ratio, which enhanced the electron transfer between the reactant and the catalyst surface and exhibited a high glycerol oxidation activity and stability.[\[8\]](#page-8-0) Although the application of Pd-based electrocatalysts has been extensively studied in ethanol oxidation, since the interface of Pd can easily adsorb CO intermediates, reducing the activity of their catalysts, which limits the wide application of Pd-based electrocatalysts.[\[9\]](#page-8-0) It has been reported that when EOR occurs on Pd(111), the coupled radical reaction occupies an absolute energy-barrier advantage over the bond-breaking radical reaction, leading to low C1 pathway selectivity with the main oxidation product of CH3COOH. The doping of oxophilic transition metal elements in Pd(111) can promote the formation of OH<sup>−</sup> free radicals due to the alloying degree and the electron effect can be regulated by different amounts of oxophilic metal atoms, which is conducive to the cleavage of the C‒C bond and oxidation process of carbonaceous intermediates, facilitating the complete oxidation of ethanol.[\[10\]](#page-8-0) Moreover, Xie et al. prepared highly efficient and stable PdCoH nanosheets by introducing the oxyphilic metals Co and H atoms into the Pd lattice and analyzing from the in situ infrared spectra, discovering that the oxyphilic

www.afm-journal.de

of Co facilitates the formation and adsorption of OH- on Pd-CoH nanosheets, which promotes the removal of CO<sub>ad</sub>. [11] However, under harsh working conditions, noble metal Pd in Pd-M alloy is prone to dissolution, reducing the catalytic activity. Lattice oxygen is beneficial for suppressing the lattice atom diffusion, which can inhibit their leaching process under harsh conditions and improve their long-term stability. Zhang et al. then constructed  $Na_{0.6}Mg_{0.3}Mn_{0.6}Ru_{0.1}O_2$  catalysts using the subcharacteristics, in which the strong Ru-O covalent bonding also led to an enhanced electron delocalization between Ru and O, which reduces the oxidation of the oxygen anion that can reduce the driving force for metal migration.[12] Huang et al. prepared ultrafine (2.0-3.5 nm) Ru nanoparticles loaded on carbon substrates formed by C<sub>60</sub>(OH), (Ru-O/C-600) coordinated with O atomic sites, where the Ru-O bonds created electronic communication channels to facilitate charge transfer and improve the conductivity of the electrocatalyst.[13] Moreover, lattice oxygen in Pd-based alloy materials can effectively modulate the center of the d-band close to the Fermi energy level, which drives the spontaneous cleavage of the C-C bond and contributes to the selectivity of EOR.[1,14]

The C-C bond is a fundamental component of organic matter and the selective cleavage of the bond is of great importance in organic chemistry and biomass utilization.[15] However, the research on C-C bond cleavage in alcohol has been limited due to the competitiveness of the C2 pathway which includes incomplete oxidation to acetic acid (CH<sub>3</sub>COOH) and/or acetaldehyde (CH<sub>3</sub>CHO).<sup>[4,16]</sup> The C1 pathway is the full oxidation of CH<sub>3</sub>CH<sub>2</sub>OH to CO<sub>2</sub> (CO<sub>3</sub><sup>2-</sup>) that can improve the intrinsically available energy utilization of ethanol. Additionally, the C-C bond cleavage involved in the C1 path significantly enhances the reaction energy barriers that need to be overcome during the catalytic process, making the design and preparation of catalysts more challenging with much research focused on the promotion of C-C bond cleavage.[17] Wang et al. synthesized oxygendefect-rich VR-β-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> catalysts by low-temperature plasma technique, containing a large number of oxygen-defect-induced ligand-unsaturated Ni atoms, which can be used as the active site for the generation of OH-. Since the electrophilic adsorbed oxygen in VO-Ni<sup>2+δ</sup>-OH<sup>-</sup> can attack specific C–C bonds and cause spontaneous C–C bond cleavage, VR-β-Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> efficiently facilitates the production of carboxylic and formic acids by the electrooxidation of o-diols.[18] Moreover, Jin's group has used sizeand morphology-controllable amorphous PdCu nanomaterials for the ethanol electrooxidation reaction and found that the amorphous structure could significantly promote the cleavage of the C-C bond in the ethanol molecule, resulting in a C1 pathway Faraday efficiency of 69.6%.[16b] In addition, Yang et al. proposed that the precise construction and utilization of immobilized active substances such as lattice oxygen, which is more accessible to the substrate can significantly enhance C-H activation and C(O)-C bond cleavage. [15a] However, the challenge of C1 pathway selectivity of alcohol oxidation needs to be in-depth explored.

Herein, we prepared highly dispersed ultra-thin PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs with high yield by solvothermal and pre-oxidation methods. The ultra-thin structure and large specific surface area of highly dispersed ultra-thin nanosheets are prone to provide more active sites and promote gas transmission and diffusion that can improve their catalytic performance. In order to further improve

the electrooxidation performance of ethanol, Pd-O-Co is formed on the catalyst surface by introducing lattice oxygen between Pd and Co atoms, in which the lattice oxygen is conductive to further the complete oxidation of ethanol. Meanwhile, the introduction of Co atoms can further promote the complete oxidation of carbon intermediates and solve the problem of poisoning. Ultrathin PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs showed excellent activity in ethanol oxidation with mass activity of 12.43 A mg-1 and specific activity of 22.01 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which exceeded that of PdCo NSs (7.51 A mg<sup>-1</sup> and 16.19 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), Pd NSs (1.12 A mg<sup>-1</sup> and 7.01 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), and commercial Pd black catalysts (4.30 A mg<sup>-1</sup> and 13.81 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>). Simultaneously, in-situ infrared and theoretical calculation results show that lattice oxygen between Pd and Co atoms promotes bimetallic p-d orbital hybridization, which directly leads to d-band center upshift and charge rearrangement, and promotes C-C bond cleavage to enhance EOR selectivity.

### 2. Results and Discussion

### 2.1. Characterization of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs

Figure 1a illustrates the synthetic approach of ultrathin PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs with a one-pot solvothermal and pre-oxidation strategy. In a typical example, Pd(acac), and Co(acac), are used as the precursors for Pd and Co, respectively, while W(CO)<sub>6</sub> and DMF as the reducing agents. The carbonyl released by W(CO)<sub>6</sub> is inclined to prevent the growth of PdCo NSs, assisting the preferential formation of ultrathin alloyed nanosheets. Then, lattice oxygen atoms are introduced by square wave voltammetry. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs in Figure 1b,c show uniformly dispersed ultrathin hexagonal shapes with an average size of ≈33 nm. Atomic Force Microscope (AFM) was used to evaluate the thickness of 2D nanomaterials. The AFM result shows that the thickness of synthesized PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs is ca. 1.57 nm (Figure S1, Supporting Information), confirming the ultrathin 2D structures, which is consistent well with the morphological results. The TEM images of PdCo NSs and Pd NSs are demonstrated in Figures \$2,\$3 (Supporting Information), and the similar morphological characterization proves that the introduction of lattice oxygen does not disrupt the structure of Pd-based ultrathin 2D nanosheets. High-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) image demonstrates that the PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs maintain a face-centered cubic (fcc) crystal structure as that of pure Pd (Figure 1d,e). It can be observed that the distinct lattice stripe spacing of 0.233 nm corresponds to Pd(111) (Figure 1d), while the lattice spacing of 0.216 nm is the PdCo(111) (Figure 1e), which is slightly narrower as compared to the standard Pd (111) (0.225 nm) due to the successful doping of Co atoms as well as the introduction of the lattice oxygen resulting in the contraction of the Pd lattice. Moreover, the high angle annular dark field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) image and corresponding elemental mapping images of the PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs show that the homogeneous distribution of Pd atoms and Co atoms in the nanosheets, while a few oxygen atoms are scattered in the nanosheets (Figure 1f). All those indicate the successful alloying of Pt and Co, the prepared PdCo NSs undergo slight oxidation after square wave voltammetry, and the Pd-O-Co

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) The synthesed illustration of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs. b,c) TEM images, d,e) HRTEM images, f) HAADF-STEM, and g) EDX element mapping images of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs.

surface material is formed by the introduction of oxygen between Pd and Co atoms.

Energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) mapping image further illustrates the uniform distribution of Pd and Co with the atomic ratio of Pd: Co = 95.4: 4.6 (Figure S4, Supporting Information). The X-ray diffraction (XRD) results analyze the phase structure of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs and Pd NSs (**Figure 2**[a\)](#page-3-0). The diffraction peaks at ≈40.12°, 46.66°, 68.12°, and 82.10° in the pattern of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs and Pd NSs correspond to (111), (200), (220), and (311), which belong to the typical crystal structure of fcc Pd (JCPSD No.46-1043).[\[19\]](#page-8-0) However, there are slight shifts in the peak position of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs compared to that of Pd NSs, suggesting that Co atoms diffuse into the Pd lattice to cause lattice contraction. To investigate the effect of the introduction of lattice oxygen on the surface of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs, Raman spectra measurements are further carried out (Figure S5, Supporting Information). Raman spectra show that the main peaks of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs are located at ≈440 and ≈640 cm<sup>−</sup>1, which can be attributed to the Eg and B1 g modes of the Pd-O vibrations. Compared to the PdCo NSs, the intensities of these peaks are significantly enhanced, suggesting the successful introduction of lattice oxygen, and the Raman peaks of the PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs are significantly blue-shifted, which demonstrates that the introduction of lattice oxygen leads to lattice contraction. To further investigate the surface composition of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs, surface analysis is carried out by using an X-ray photoelectron spectrometer (XPS). The XPS spectra of O 1s show three group peaks at 529.5, 530.7, and 532.4 eV which belong to M-O, oxygen vacancy (OV), and hydroxyl (O-H), groups, respectively, where lattice oxygen occupies a dominant position, which is different from PdCo NSs, proving the successful introduction of lattice oxygen after the squarewave potential method (Figure [2b\)](#page-3-0). As shown in Figure [2c,](#page-3-0) the high-resolution Pd 3d spectrum shows two distinct peaks at 335.3 and 340.5 eV corresponding to Pd<sup>0</sup> 3d5/2 and

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a) The XRD patterns of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs and Pd NSs. The high resolution XPS spectra of b) O 1s, c) Pd 3d, and d) Co 2p of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs and PdCo NSs.

Pd<sup>0</sup> 3d3/2, respectively. The other two peaks at 336.3 and 341.6 eV can be ascribed to Pd<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> 3d5/2 and Pd<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> 3d3/2 which are caused by current oxidation. The oxidation state is not obvious in the Pd 3d spectrum of PdCo NSs, further demonstrating the successful preparation of the oxidation state on the catalyst surface. In addition, to investigate the influence of Co for PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs, as shown in Figure S6 (Supporting Information), the highresolution Pd 3d spectrum of Pd NSs shows two distinct peaks at 334.7 eV and 340.1 eV corresponding to Pd<sup>0</sup> 3d5/2 and Pd<sup>0</sup> 3d3/2, respectively, which negative shift compared to PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs, indicating the introduction of Co can trigger the transfer of electrons from Pd to Co, i.e., the presence of Co optimizes the electronic structure of the catalyst surface. The XPS spectrum of Co 2p could be deconvoluted into three couples of peaks ascribable to metallic Co0 (778.8 and 793.7 eV), Co2<sup>+</sup> (781.4 and 786.3 eV), and satellite peaks (785.8 and 800.7 eV) (Figure 2d). Oxygenophilic Co elements promote the formation and adsorption of OH<sup>−</sup> ions, which facilitates the selectivity of the C1 pathway. Moreover, a significant increase in the metal oxidation state in PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs can be clearly observed, proving the successful introduction of lattice oxygen. In addition, the binding energies of both Pd and Co are slightly shifted due to the realignment of the electronic structure introduced by the lattice oxygen.[\[20\]](#page-8-0)

#### **2.2. EOR Performance of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs**

The catalytic properties of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs toward ethanol electrooxidation are examined. The CV test of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs is carried out in 1.0 m KOH solution in comparison with PdCo NSs, Pd NSs, and commercial Pd black (**Figure 3**[a\)](#page-4-0). The presence of a 2D structure and alloy effect provide the catalyst with an extremely high electrochemical specific surface area. As shown in Figure [3b,](#page-4-0) the CV of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs, PdCo NSs, Pd NSs, and commercial Pd black in 1.0 m KOH and 0.5 m ethanol at a scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> for EOR. The peak in the forward scan comes from EG oxidation, while the peak in the backward scan is related to the removal of carbonaceous species generated in the forward electrooxidation scan. Among these catalysts, the PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs, exhibit the highest mass activity of 12.43 A mg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and the highest specific activity for 22.01 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which are higher than PdCo NSs (7.51 A mg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and 16.19 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2), Pd NSs (1.12 A mg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and 7.01 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2), and commercial Pd black (4.30 A mg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and 13.81 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) (Figure [3b–d\)](#page-4-0). The onset potential of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs (0.46 V vs. RHE) for EOR, which is much lower than that of PdCo NSs (0.51 V vs. RHE), Pd NSs (0.59 V vs. RHE), and commercial Pd black (0.55 V vs. RHE). Meanwhile, the PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs also show a much higher mass activity and specific activity

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** a) The CV curves of the PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs, PdCo NSs, Pd NSs, and commercial Pd black in 1.0 m KOH at the scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>−</sup>1. b) The CV curves for mass activity, c) the CV curves for specific activity, and d) the mass activity and specific activity values at the peak potential of the PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs, PdCo NSs, Pd NSs, and commercial Pd black in 1.0 m KOH and 0.5 m ethanol solution at the scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>−</sup>1, and e) their corresponding Tafel plots. f) Nyquist plots of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs, PdCo NSs, Pd NSs, and commercial Pd black. g) The i-t curve of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs in 1.0 m KOH and 0.5 m ethanol electrolyte at a constant potential of 0.8 V versus RHE. h) The CV curves of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs before and after long-term stability test. i) The CO-stripping voltammograms of the PdCo NSs/Pd-O-Co NSs in 1.0 m KOH and 0.5 m ethanol solution.

compared with recently reported state-of-the-art catalysts (Figure S7, Supporting Information). The Tafel plot of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs is 27.78 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1, which is much lower than PdCo NSs (28.93 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), Pd NSs (35.27 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), and commercial Pd black (34.44 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), demonstrating the PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs has the faster charge-transfer kinetics (Figure 3e). To evaluate the electrocatalytic performance for EOR, the electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs, PdCo NSs, Pd NSs, and commercial Pd black are analyzed to measure charge transfer resistance (Rct). The smaller Rct value of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs (11.8 Ω) than PdCo NSs (19.6 Ω), Pd NSs (28.6 Ω), and commercial Pd black (25.6 Ω), demonstrating the PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs facilitates superior electron transport (Figure 3f). The inference of the Electrochemical surface area (ECSA) values is performed from the double layer capacitance (Cdl) calculated by CV measurements at different scan rates (Figure S8, Supporting Information). The Cdl values of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs, PdCo NSs, Pd NSs, and commercial Pd black are calculated to be 18.14, 12.14, 0.14, and 4.86 mF cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (Figure S9, Supporting Information), respectively, which show a linear relationship with ECSA values, further verifying the largest ECSA value of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs.[\[21\]](#page-8-0) The stability of the PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs is investigated by chronoamperometry at a potential of 0.8 V versus RHE for 5000s (Figure 3g). The mass activity of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs for EOR remained higher than PdCo NSs, Pd NSs, and commercial Pd black during the long-term stability test. In order to further prove the excellent stability, the constant current tests are continued with a fresh electrolyte after the i-t test for 5000 s, and the mass activity of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs decays to 91.77%, which shows a slower decay than that of PdCo NSs (23.78%), Pd NSs (30.26%), and commercial Pd black (36.58%) (Figure S10–S13, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure S14 (Supporting Information), the PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs still remain ultra-thin monodisperse nanosheets with hexagonal. This further highlights the

**Figure 4.** In situ FTIR spectra of a) PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs and b) PdCo NSs at different potentials from 0.2 to 1.2 V (vs RHE) in 1.0 m KOH + 0.5 m ethanol solution.

superior electrocatalytic activity and stability of EOR. We further supplement the post-stabilization XPS data and analyze them in comparison with the initial data, as shown in Figure S15 (Supporting Information), the percentage of Pd<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> in the Pd 3d3/2 and 3d5/2 orbitals increases due to slight oxidation of metal active sites after a long period of reaction work, and the oxidation state of the elemental Co also slightly increases in comparison with the initial state. The XPS data for O 1s show that the percentage of lattice oxygen also increases compared to the initial, which may originate from the oxidation of the metal elements. With the results of XRD (Figure S16, Supporting Information), the morphology and crystal structure of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs show no obvious change significantly except for slight surface oxidation, which indicates excellent stability. With the increase of the time of the long-term stability test, the current density of the catalysts gradually decreased, and the loss of catalytic performance of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs is the least. Notably, the EOR activity of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs after the long-term stability test remained high mass activity like the initial activity (Figure [3h\)](#page-4-0), while the PdCo NSs, Pd NSs, and commercial Pd black decreased significantly (Figure S17–S19, Supporting Information). The adsorption of carbon-based intermediates, especially CO species, will seriously hinder the performance of Pd-based catalysts during the complete oxidation of ethanol. To study the desorption of CO species, the CO monolayer stripping of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs, PdCo NSs, Pd NSs, and commercial Pd black for EOR are measured. The CO oxidation onset potential of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs is more negative than PdCo NSs, Pd NSs, and commercial Pd black, demonstrating that the PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs have a lower CO oxidation reaction site. As shown in Figure [3i,](#page-4-0) The ECSACO of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs is 46.80 m2 g<sup>−</sup>1, which is highest than PdCo NSs (30.62 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>−</sup>1), Pd NSs (1.63 m2 g<sup>−</sup>1) and commercial Pd black (15.88 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>−</sup>1) (Figures S20–S22, Supporting Information). Therefore, PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs promote the oxidation of CO intermediate substances, which is conducive to resistance to CO poisoning. The electrocatalytic properties of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs at different temperatures are further studied for EOR (Figures S23–S26, Supporting Information). According to the formula:[\[22\]](#page-8-0)

$$I = Ae^{-Ea/RT}$$
 (1)

The activation energies (Ea) of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs (9.27 KJ mol<sup>−</sup>1), PdCo NSs (18.62 KJ mol<sup>−</sup>1), Pd NSs (18.92 KJ mol<sup>−</sup>1), and commercial Pd black (18.75 KJ mol<sup>−</sup>1) are calculated from the linear relationship between ln I and 1/T (Figure S27, Supporting Information). The Ea value of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs is much slower than that of other comparison samples, which is the reason why the ultrathin nanosheets, alloy effect, and lattice oxygen can enhance the electrooxidation activity of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs.

The fracture of the C‒C bond is the key to the complete ethanol oxidation to CO2, the positive effects of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs and PdCo NSs on EOR are further analyzed by in-suit FTIR spectroscopy. FTIR spectra in the range of 0.2-1.2 V at 1.0 m KOH <sup>+</sup> 0.5 m ethanol are shown in **Figure 4**a,b. The PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs have a distinct peak at 2340 cm<sup>−</sup>1, belonging to the O-C-O asymmetric stretching of CO2, which implies the final product of the C1 pathway, indicating that the introduction of O is conducive to the improvement of selectivity of C1 pathway. Obviously, the CO2 band of PdCo NSs is much weaker than that of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs, indicating that the CO2 productivity of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs is higher than that of PdCo NSs. Both PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs and PdCo NSs have peaks at 1650 cm<sup>−</sup>1, which can be attributed to the exclusion of interfacial H2O by incoming CH3CH2OH. In addition, two downward peaks at 1527–1544 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> are related to the stretching of acetate produced by the C2 pathway. Peaks at 1085 and 1045 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> are associated with the tensile vibration of C-O, the downward trend of these peaks suggests that ethanol consumption. The above FTIR results all indicate that the introduction of O weakens the C2 pathway and the conversion of ethanol to acetaldehyde or even acetic acid, weakens the adsorption of CO intermediates of Pd and also facilitates the oxidation of intermediates and improves the selectivity of C1.

To investigate the EOR mechanism of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs, the models of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs and PdCo NSs are constructed (Figure S28,S29, Supporting Information), and the Gibbs free energy changes at each step of the C1 pathway are calculated by density functional theories (DFT) (**Figure 5**[a;](#page-6-0) Figures S30,S31, Supporting Information). The results show that the Gibbs free energies of the C-H bond dissociation in the initial dehydrogenation to form CH3CH2OH\* on the Pd-O-Co (111) and PdCo (111) surfaces are −0.16 and 0.03 eV, respectively; therefore, CH3CH2OH is more readily adsorbed and activated on the Pd-O-Co (111) surface, and it shows a continuous decreasing in subsequent dehydrogenation reaction trend, which favors the whole reaction.[\[23\]](#page-8-0) The selectivity of metal active sites for ethanol

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 5.** a) Free energy diagram of C1 reaction pathway on PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs and PdCo NSs. b) DOS plots of Pd for Pd-O-Co(111) and PdCo(111) surfaces. Side view of the charge density distribution of c) Pd-O-Co(111) and d) PdCo(111), in which charge accumulation and depletion are indicated by yellow and cyan areas, respectively.

oxidation is significantly dependent on the surface structure, which includes two key reaction steps: the initial dehydrogenation of ethanol and the oxidation of the acetyl group (\*CH3CO).[\[24\]](#page-8-0) This re-emphasizes the important role of \*CH3CO intermediates, Guo et al. found that the C‒H bond was further disrupted in \*CH3CO on Pd(111), and that C‒C bond cleavage is more likely to occur on the strongly chemisorbed precursors \*CH2CO and \*CHCO.[\[25\]](#page-8-0) For \*CHxCO (*x* = 3, 2, 1), in order to identify the precursor on which C‒C bond cleavage occurs, the reaction energy barriers need to be further analyzed to determine the competition between C‒C and C‒H bonds. As shown in Figure S32 (Supporting Information), there shows the free energy diagrams of different reaction paths on PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs and PdCo NSs, in which the first pathway is the \*CH3-CO cleavage with C‒C and the C‒H bonds cleavage, and the second pathway is the cleavages of C‒C and the C-H bonds for \*CH2-CO and \*CHCO. On the Pd-O-Co(111) crystal surface, the reaction energy barrier for direct C‒C bond cleavage into \*CH3 and \*CO (0.34 eV) is much lower than that for C-H bond cleavage (0.76 eV) in the first pathway. Therefore, the optimal pathway for C1 process on the Pd-O-Co(111) surface is \*CH3CO→ \*CH3+\*CO→ \*COOH→ CO2. While the reaction energy barrier for the formation of \*CH2+\*CO on the PdCo(111) surface is smaller than those of \*CH3+\*CO as well as \*CHCO (Figure S33, Supporting Information), suggesting the optimal pathway is \*CH3CO→ \*CH2CO→ \*CH2+\*CO→ \*COOH→ CO2 on the PdCo(111) surface, which indicates that the introduction of lattice oxygen drives the direct C‒C bond cleavage on the \*CH3CO intermediate, effectively saving the reaction path. Identically, their decisive rate steps are both \*CHx + \*CO → \*COOH, but the involvement of lattice oxygen effectively lowers the potential barriers (Δ = 0.55 eV for Pd-O-Co(111) and Δ = 0.84 eV for PdCo(111)).

It is noteworthy that \*CH3CO is not only an important intermediate in C‒C bond cleavage but also a key intermediate in the byproduct CH3COOH. As shown in Figure S34 (Supporting Information), the reaction energy of the CH3COOH byproduct is larger than that of \*COOH on the crystalline surface of Pd-O-Co (111), which effectively ensures the selectivity of the C1 pathway. It is an important challenge for ethanol oxidation to achieve high selectivity of the C1 pathway due to the thermodynamic and kinetic advantages of \*COOH during the EOR process, further revealing the lattice oxygen accelerates the electronic regulation and optimizes the intermediate adsorption. Additionally, the d-band densities (d-DOS) of the Pd states on the surfaces of PdCo(111) and Pd-O-Co(111) are calculated, and the results show that the d-band center of Pd on the surface of Pd-O-Co(111) is −1.93 eV, which is closer to the Fermi energy level than that of the d-band center on the surface of PdCo(111) (−2.25 eV), suggesting that the introduction of the lattice oxygen can modify the electronic structure of the catalyst surface. In Figure 5c,d, charge density difference calculations were used to track the interfacial charge transfer,[\[26\]](#page-8-0) and the orbital hybridization of Pd and Co induced a charge redistribution at the PdCo(111) interface, with strong interactions between the Pt and Co components, and the transfer of electrons from Pd to neighboring Co and O, which can be evidenced by the localized electron depletion on Pd and the accumulation of electrons on Co, and this is conducive to the reduction of the Pd-CO\* bond energy to prevent catalyst poisoning.

## **3. Conclusion**

In summary, monodisperse ultra-thin nanosheets with hexagonal are prepared by a simple wet chemical and pre-oxidation <span id="page-7-0"></span>www.advancedsciencenews.com

FUNCTIONAL MATERIALS

www.afm-journal.de

methods, PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs show higher intrinsic activity for EOR compared with PdCo NSs, Pd NSs, and commercial Pd black. The 2D nanosheets with large electrochemical specific surface areas facilitate the diffusion of bubbles and the adsorption and desorption of carbon-based intermediates. The modification of Co is conducive to the dissociation of OH- in water while restraining the accumulation of 2D nanosheets due to the alloying effect. Meanwhile, the introduction of lattice oxygen and orbital hybridization are conducive to alleviating the dissolution of Pd and the anti-toxicity of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs. DFT results reveal that the introduction of lattice oxygen drives the direct C-C bond cleavage on the \*CH3CO intermediate, effectively shortening the reaction path and enhancing the C1 path selectivity. Therefore, the prepared PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs show excellent electrocatalytic properties and durability for EOR under alkaline conditions. As a result, this work opens up new opportunities for the rational design and development of 2D nanosheet electrocatalysts that are efficient for electrooxidation.

## 4. Experimental Section

Chemicals: Hyxadecyl trimethyl ammonium bromide (CTAB), citric acid (CA), palladium acetylacetonate (Pd(acac)<sub>2</sub>), and cobalt acetylacetonate (Co(acac)<sub>2</sub>) were purchased from Shanghai Aladdin Biochemical Technology Co., Ltd. Hexacarbonyltyngste (W(CO)<sub>6</sub>) was obtained from Alfa Aesar (China) Chemical Co., Ltd. Polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP) was obtained from Sigma-Aldrich (Shanghai) Trading Co., Ltd. N, and N-Dimethylformamide (DMF) was purchased from Sinopharm Reagent Co., Ltd. The deionized water (resistance > 18  $M\Omega$  cm $^{-1}$ ) was used in all the experiments.

Synthesis of Pd NSs: PVP (15.0 mg), 85.0 mg CA, 30.0 mg CTAB, and 8.0 mg Pd(acac) $_2$  were added to 10.0 mL DMF and stirred in a N $_2$  atmosphere for 30 min. Then, 25.0 mg W(CO) $_6$  was added to the above mixed solution and maintained at 80 °C for 1 h in the oil bath. After that, the black product was washed using a mixture of acetone and ethanol. The samples were obtained by centrifugation and drying in a vacuum oven.

Synthesis of PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs: PVP (15.0 mg), 85.0 mg CA, 30.0 mg CTAB, 4.0 mg Co(acac)<sub>2</sub>, and 6.4 mg Pd(acac)<sub>2</sub> were added to 10.0 mL DMF and stirred in an N<sub>2</sub> atmosphere for 30 min. Then 25.0 mg W(CO)<sub>6</sub> was added to the mixed solution and maintained at 80 °C for 1 h in the oil bath. After that, the solution was washed using a mixture of acetone and ethanol. The samples obtained by centrifugation were dried at 60 °C to obtain PdCo NSs. Lattice oxygen was introduced between Pd and Co atoms on the catalyst surface to obtain PdCo/Pd-O-Co NSs by square wave voltammetry method.

Electrochemical Measurements: Electrochemical tests were evaluated on an electrochemical workstation (CHI 760) using a three-electrode system in which the working electrode is glass carbon (GC, diameter 3 mm), the counter electrode was carbon rod, and the reference electrode was a saturated calomel electrode (SCE). The 2 mg catalyst was dispersed in a mixed solution of 1 mL Nafion and ethanol solution, and ultrasonic for 30 min to obtain a uniform test solution. Then, 4  $\mu L$  of catalyst ink was dripped onto a glassy carbon electrode and dried at room temperature. All potential values were calibrated to the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) according to the equation  $E_{\rm RHE} = E_{\rm SCE} + 0.242 + 0.0591 \, \rm pH.$ 

Physical Characterization: The catalyst morphology was characterized by JEM-2100UHR accelerated voltage transmission electron microscopy (TEM), energy dispersive X-ray analysis (EDX), and high angle ring dark field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM). X-ray photoelectron spectrometer (XPS) was performed on Kratos AXIS ULTRA and the binding energies were corrected with a C 1s peak of 284.6 eV as reference. X-ray diffraction (XRD) was measured by Rigaku-D/MAX/2500 PC to analyze the crystal structure of the obtained samples. In situ detection of intermediates was measured by Thermo iS50 FT-IR.

Details of DFT Calculations: The spin-polarized DFT were carried out by using the Vienna Ab initio Simulation Package (VASP). [27] The Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof generalized-gradient approximation functional was used to describe the interaction between electrons. [28] The energy cutoff was set to 400 eV. The Monkhorst-Pack k-points grid was set to be  $3\times3\times1$  for all the calculations. The vacuum region was set to be 15Å in z direction to prevent the interaction between two adjacent surfaces. The convergence threshold for energy and force was set to be less than  $10^{-5}$  eV and 0.02 eV Å $^{-1}$ . The bottom layers were fixed during the calculations.

The reaction Gibbs free energy ( $\Delta G$ ) is defined as  $\Delta G = \Delta E + \Delta E_{ZPE} - T\Delta S$ ,  $\Delta E$  is the reaction energy,  $\Delta E_{ZPE}$  is zero-point energies, T is the temperature (298.15 K),  $\Delta S$  is the difference in entropy from vibrational frequency calculations. The entropy of the gas phase is obtained from the NIST database with standard conditions.

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## Acknowledgements

This research was sponsored by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Nos: 52402273, 52272222, and 52072197), Youth Innovation Team Development Program of Shandong Higher Education Institutions (2022KJ155), Taishan Scholar Young Talent Program (tsqn201909114).

#### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

Research data are not shared.

#### **Keywords**

2D nanosheets, anti-poisoning ability, C1 selectivity, Ethanol oxidation, lattice oxygen

Received: November 11, 2024 Revised: December 31, 2024 Published online: January 24, 2025 1616932, 2025, 28. Downloaded from https://advanced onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/afmf.202421763 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0801/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- a) H. Wang, H. D. Abruna, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2023, 145, 6330; b) Z.
  He, Q. Duan, L. Liao, C. Wang, Chem. Eng. J. 2023, 468, 143411; c) F.
  Yang, J. Ye, Q. Yuan, X. Yang, Z. Xie, F. Zhao, Z. Zhou, L. Gu, X. Wang,
  Adv. Funct. Mater. 2020, 30, 1908235; d) Y. Wang, M. Zheng, Y. Li, C.
  Ye, J. Chen, J. Ye, Q. Zhang, J. Li, Z. Zhou, X. Z. Fu, J. Wang, S. G. Sun,
  D. Wang, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2022, 61, 202115735.
- [2] a) H. Mou, Q. Chang, Z. Xie, S. Hwang, S. Kattel, J. G. Chen, Appl. Catal., B 2022, 316, 121648; b) C. Wang, D. Bukhvalov, M. C. Goh, Y. Du, X. Yang, Chin. J. Catal. 2022, 43, 851; c) H. Wang, S. Jiao, S. Liu, K. Deng, H. Yu, X. Wang, Y. Xu, Z. Wang, L. Wang, J. Mater. Chem. A 2022, 10, 24051; d) D. Zhang, L. Si, Q. Ren, X. Yan, S. Hu, Nano Res. 2024, 17, 8552.
- [3] Z. Zhao, X. Li, X. Liu, H. Gao, A. Jia, S. Xie, X. Song, X. Liu, F. Yang, Q. Yang, ACS Catal. 2024, 14, 4478.

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.afm-journal.de](http://www.afm-journal.de)**

16163028, 2025, 28, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202421763 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [08/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [4] Z. Chen, T. Liu, H. Zhang, B. Pang, Y. Sun, L. Hu, Q. Luo, X. Liu, L. Cao, T. Yao, *Nano Res.* **2024**, *17*, 6032.
- [5] a) W. Wang, W. Zhao, H. Xu, S. Liu, W. Huang, Q. Zhao, *Coord. Chem. Rev.* **2021**, *429*, 213616; b) J. Wang, G. Zhang, H. Liu, L. Wang, Z. Li, *Small* **2024**, *20*, 2310277; c) Y. Zhu, Y. Chen, Y. Feng, X. Meng, J. Xia, G. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2401694; d) S. W. Jang, S. Dutta, A. Kumar, Y. R. Hong, H. Kang, S. Lee, S. Ryu, W. Choi, I. S. Lee, *ACS Nano* **2020**, *14*, 10578.
- [6] a) F. Gao, Y. Zhang, F. Ren, Y. Shiraishi, Y. Du, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*, 2000255; b) W. Wang, X. Zhang, Y. Zhang, X. Chen, J. Ye, J. Chen, Z. Lyu, X. Chen, Q. Kuang, S. Xie, Z. Xie, *Nano Lett.* **2020**, *20*, 5458.
- [7] W. Ao, H. Ren, C. Cheng, Z. Fan, P. Yin, Q. Qin, Q. Zhang, L. Dai, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202305158.
- [8] J. Lai, F. Lin, Y. Tang, P. Zhou, Y. Chao, Y. Zhang, S. Guo, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2019**, *9*, 1800684.
- [9] a) X. Lao, Z. Li, L. Yang, B. Zhang, W. Ye, A. Fu, P. Guo, *J. Energy Chem.* **2023**, *79*, 279; b) T. J. Wang, F. M. Li, H. Huang, S. W. Yin, P. Chen, P. J. Jin, Y. Chen, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*, 2000534; c) W. Huang, X. Kang, C. Xu, J. Zhou, J. Deng, Y. Li, S. Cheng, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1706962.
- [10] a) J. Qi, N. Benipal, C. Liang, W. Li, *Appl. Catal., B* **2016**, *199*, 494; b) L. Ji, H. Che, N. Qian, J. Li, S. Luo, X. Li, X. Wu, Q. Xu, X. Gong, X. Cui, H. Zhang, D. Yang, *Appl. Catal., B* **2023**, *328*, 122521; c) J. A. D. del Rosario, J. D. Ocon, H. Jeon, Y. Yi, J. K. Lee, J. Lee, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2014**, *118*, 22473.
- [11] C. Shen, H. Chen, M. Qiu, Y. Shi, W. Yan, Q. Jiang, Y. Jiang, Z. Xie, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2022**, *10*, 1735.
- [12] H. Hu, C.-W. Kao, C. Cheng, X. Xia, Y. Shen, X. Zhou, G. Liu, L. Wang, P. Zeng, J. Mao, T.-S. Chan, L. Zhang, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2023**, *15*, 30332.
- [13] W. Feng, Y. Feng, Y. He, J. Chen, H. Wang, T. Luo, Y. Hu, C. Yuan, L. Cao, L. Feng, J. Huang, *Inorg. Chem. Front.* **2022**, *9*, 4151.
- [14] X. Luo, C. Liu, X. Wang, Q. Shao, Y. Pi, T. Zhu, Y. Li, X. Huang, *Nano Lett.* **2020**, *20*, 1967.
- [15] a) K. Wang, J. Huang, J. Hu, M. Wu, Y. Liao, S. Yang, H. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, 202410555; b) H. Luo, L. Wang, S. Shang, G. Li, Y. Lv, S. Gao, W. Dai, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 19268; c) S. P. Heins, P. E. Schneider, A. L. Speelman, S. Hammes-Schiffer, A. M. Appel, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, 6384; d) Y. Qin, W. Zhang, F. Wang, J.

- Li, J. Ye, X. Sheng, C. Li, X. Liang, P. Liu, X. Wang, X. Zheng, Y. Ren, C. Xu, Z. Zhang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202200899.
- [16] a) J. Shi, W. Chen, Y. Wu, Y. Zhu, C. Xie, Y. Jiang, Y.-C. Huang, C.-L. Dong, Y. Zou, *Natl. Sci. Rev.* **2024**, *11*, nwae271; b) W. Wang, X. Shi, T. He, Z. Zhang, X. Yang, Y.-J. Guo, B. Chong, W.-M. Zhang, M. Jin, *Nano Lett.* **2022**, *22*, 7028.
- [17] a) Y. Wang, M. Zheng, Y. Li, J. Chen, J. Ye, C. Ye, S. Li, J. Wang, Y. Zhu, S.-G. Sun, D. Wang, *Nano Lett.* **2023**, *23*, 8194; b) N. Ye, W. Sheng, R. Zhang, B. Yan, Z. Jiang, T. Fang, *Small* **2024**, *20*, 2304990.
- [18] W. Chen, J. Shi, Y. Wu, Y. Jiang, Y. C. Huang, W. Zhou, J. Liu, C. L. Dong, Y. Zou, S. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *63*, 202316449.
- [19] a) M. Luo, Z. Zhao, Y. Zhang, Y. Sun, Y. Xing, F. Lv, Y. Yang, X. Zhang, S. Hwang, Y. Qin, J.-Y. Ma, F. Lin, D. Su, G. Lu, S. Guo, *Nature* **2019**, *574*, 81; b) B. Nan, L. Li, Y. Li, L. Guo, M. Du, Z. Liu, X. Tao, C. Tian, Z. Liang, Y. Zhang, C. Ma, L. Shen, R. Si, L. Li, *Appl. Catal., B* **2023**, *334*, 122818.
- [20] a) X. Chen, X. Xu, C. Shao, Z. Ke, Y. Cheng, H. Jin, Y. Da, D. Liu, W. Chen, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2024**, *9*, 2182; b) Y. Pan, Z. Wang, K. Wang, Q. Ye, B. Shen, F. Yang, Y. Cheng, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2402264.
- [21] a) X. Xu, H. Liao, L. Huang, S. Chen, R. Wang, S. Wu, Y. Wu, Z. Sun, H. Huang, *Appl. Catal., B* **2024**, *341*, 123312; b) Y. Xia, L. Guo, J. Zhu, J. Tang, Z. Li, X. Liu, J. Chi, L. Wang, *Appl. Catal., B* **2024**, *351*, 123995.
- [22] G. R. Xu, Y. N. Zhai, F. M. Li, G. T. Zhao, S. N. Li, H. C. Yao, J. X. Jiang, Y. Chen, *Nanoscale* **2019**, *11*, 13477.
- [23] L. Ji, H. Che, N. Qian, J. Li, S. Luo, X. Li, X. Wu, Q. Xu, X. Gong, X. Cui, H. Zhang, D. Yang, *Appl. Catal., B* **2023**, *328*, 122521.
- [24] a) H.-F. Wang, Z.-P. Liu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2008**, *130*, 10996; b) Z.-P. Wu, B. Miao, E. Hopkins, K. Park, Y. Chen, H. Jiang, M. Zhang, C.-J. Zhong, L. Wang, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2019**, *123*, 20853.
- [25] M. Li, W. Guo, R. Jiang, L. Zhao, H. Shan, *Langmuir* **2009**, *26*, 1879.
- [26] a) T. Chen, S. Xu, T. Zhao, X. Zhou, J. Hu, X. Xu, C. Liang, M. Liu, W. Ding, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202308057; b) Z. Zhang, J. Liu, J. Wang, Q. Wang, Y. Wang, K. Wang, Z. Wang, M. Gu, Z. Tang, J. Lim, T. Zhao, F. Ciucci, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 5235; c) D. Chen, R. Lu, R. Yu, Y. Dai, H. Zhao, D. Wu, P. Wang, J. Zhu, Z. Pu, L. Chen, J. Yu, S. Mu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202208642; d) F. Hu, L. Yang, Y. Jiang, C. Duan, X. Wang, L. Zeng, X. Lv, D. Duan, Q. Liu, T. Kong, J. Jiang, R. Long, Y. Xiong, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 26122.
- [27] G. Kresse, J. Furthmiiller, *Comp. Mater. Sci.* **1996**, *6*, 15.
- [28] J. P. Perdew, K. Burke, M. Ernzerhof, *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **1996**, *77*, 3865.