---
source: Chi 等 - 2023 - Modulation of Electron Structure and Dehydrogenation Kinetics of Nickel Phosphide for Hydrazine‐Assi.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 50.714s
generated: 2026-01-10T07:18:04.585723Z
---

**www.afm-journal.de**

# **Modulation of Electron Structure and Dehydrogenation Kinetics of Nickel Phosphide for Hydrazine-Assisted Self-Powered Hydrogen Production in Seawater**

*Jingqi Chi, Lili Guo, Jiayu Mao, Tong Cui, Jiawei Zhu, Yanan Xia, Jianping Lai, and Lei Wang\**

**The electrocatalytic production of hydrogen from seawater provides a low-cost way to realize energy conversion, but is restricted by high potential for seawater electrolysis and the chlorine oxidation reaction (ClOR) at the anode. Here, the self-growth of Mo-doped Ni2P nanosheet arrays with rich P vacancies on molybdenum-nickel foam (MNF) (Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF) is reported as bifunctional catalyst for Cl-free hydrogen production by coupling hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) with hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR) in seawater. Impressively, the Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF electrode as bifunctional catalyst has an excellent activity for overall hydrazine splitting (OHzS) with an ultralow voltage of only 571 mV at 1000 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and can maintain stability for an ultra-long time of 1000 h at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. Moreover, integration of OHzS into self-assembled hydrazine fuel cells (DHzFC) or solar cells can enable the self-powered H2 production. The industrial hydrazine sewage as feed for the above eletrolysis system can be degraded to ≈5 ppb rapidly. Density functional thoery calculations demonstrate that the electronic structure modulation induced by P vacancies and Mo doping can not only achieve thermoneutral GH\* for hydrogen evolution reaction but also enhance dehydrogenation kinetics from \*N2H4 to \*NHNH2 for HzOR, achieving enhanced dehydrogenation kinetics.**

**1. Introduction**

Hydrogen has been considered as a promising energy candidate due to its advantages of high energy density and zero carbon emission.[1–3] Water electrolysis powered by renewable electricity holds great promise for environmental friendly hydrogen production.[4–6] It is an effective strategy to meet the development of green energy economy that replaces scarce freshwater resources with unlimited seawater.[7,8] In general, seawater electrolysis involves two redox reactions: HER at cathodic and OER at anodic, where OER controls the overall efficiency due to slower kinetics.[9–11] In addition, the competitive chlorine oxidation reaction (ClOR) may occur to form hypochlorite (ClO<sup>−</sup>) at industrial current density (*>*500–1000 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) under alkaline conditions, which hinders the progress of seawater splitting.[12,13] This obstacle may be overcome by replacing the OER with thermodynamically more favorable hydrazine oxidative reaction (HzOR) (N2H4 +4OH<sup>−</sup>→N2 +4H2O+ 4e<sup>−</sup>, −0.33 V versus RHE).[14–16] In addition, hydrazine has been widely used in industry as raw material, so developing an effective strategy to degrade hydrazine sewage is essential for environmental protection.[17,18] Therefore, coupling HzOR with cost-free seawater electrolysis provides the possibility to reduce the voltage of hydrogen production, avoid ClOR,[19,20] and

remove the toxic hydrazine in wastewater without using additional oxidants, which can be said to kill three birds with one stone.

Recent reports highlight the feasibility of combining HzOR with seawater splitting to achieve chlorine-free hydrogen. For example, Qiu et al. successfully synthesized NiCo/MXene-based electrode, which demonstrated that chlorine-free hydrogen is

J. Chi, L. Guo, T. Cui, J. Zhu, Y. Xia, J. Lai, L. Wang Key Laboratory of Eco-chemical Engineering, Ministry of Education, International Science and Technology Cooperation Base of Eco-chemical Engineering and Green Manufacturing Qingdao University of Science and Technology Qingdao 266042, P. R. China E-mail: inorchemwl@qust.edu.cn

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202300625

**DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202300625**

J. Chi, J. Mao, J. Zhu, Y. Xia College of Chemical Engineering Qingdao University of Science and Technology Qingdao 266042, P. R. China

L. Guo, T. Cui, J. Lai, L. Wang College of Chemistry and Molecular Engineering Qingdao University of Science and Technology Qingdao 266042, P. R. China

L. Wang

College of Environment and Safety Engineering Qingdao University of Science and Technology Qingdao 266042, P. R. China

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.afm-journal.de**

16163028, 2023, 46, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202300625 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

produced by the degradation of hydrazine coupled with seawater splitting.[21] Despite the progress, some critical challenges should be further emphasized. First, external power is usually needed to apply for HzOR-assisted H2 production, which could hinder the practical applications in devices, thus integrating self-assembled hydrazine fuel cells to the hybrid seawater electrolysis system without introduction of external power is meaningful but challenging. Second, hydrazine is widely used as a deoxidizer in high energy fuels and industrial feedstocks, however, high concentration of hydrazine may seriously harm human health and ecosystem balance. At present, there are few studies on the degradation of hydrazine sewage in green and clean way. More importantly, it is highly desired to design bifunctional material with excellent HER and HzOR activity, especially possessing strong corrosion resistance at industrial current density. Meanwhile, deep interpretion on the underlying mechanism of new materials for HER and HzOR is indispensable for the development of materials chemistry. An effective strategy to enhance the electrocatalytic activity of catalysts is to introduce vacancies into their crystal structures,[22,23] which modulate the chemical and physical properties of catalysts, especially for the design of anionic vacancy on metal compounds. On the one hand, the vacancies can facilitate electron transfer by activating adjacent metal atoms to regulate the d-band center. In addition, electrons on vacancies can be excited into the conduction band (CB), so introduction of vacancies are favorable for improve the conductivity of catalyst.[24] However, the effects of P vacancies (Pv) on the electronic structure of catalysts and their effects on HER and HzOR performance are rarely reported.

Based on the above analysis, we proposed an integrated electrode of Mo-doped Ni2P with rich P vacancies to in situ grown on MNF for HER and HzOR as the bifunctional electrocatalyst in alkaline seawater. It is worth to note that phosphating and Mo doping promote the formation of rich P vacancies. Impressively, the Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF couples have excellent bifunctional activity for OHzS with an ultralow voltage of 571 mV at 1000 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and maintain stable for an ultra-long time of 1000 h at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. Moreover, integration of OHzS into solar or self-assembled DHzFC can enable self-powered seawater electrolysis. Meanwhile, the industrial hydrazine sewage can be degraded to ≈5 ppb rapidly in the above hybrid eletrolysis system. DFT calculations demonstrate that P vacancies and Mo doping can synergistically achieve thermoneutral ΔGH\* for HER and enhance dehydrogenation kinetics from \*N2H4 to \*NHNH2 for HzOR, achieving enhanced dehydrogenation kinetics.

## **2. Experimental Section**

# **2.1. Chemical and Materials**

Nickel nitrate hexahydrate (Ni(NO3)2·6H2O), ammonium molybdate ((NH4)6Mo7O24·4H2O) and sodium hypophosphite (NaH2PO2) were all from Aladdin Industrial Corporation. The hydrazine hydrate industrial sewage was offered from Yaxing Chemical Co, Ltd.

#### **2.2. Materials Synthesis**

#### *2.2.1. Synthesis of MNC Precursor*

First, 2 cm × 2 cm × 1.6 mm molybdenum-nickel foam (MNF) was sonicated for 20 min in 0.1 m hydrochloric acid solution, acetone and ethanol, respectively, to obtain cleaned MNF. 3 g of nickel nitrate and 0.2 g of ammonium molybdate were placed in 50 ml of Teflon-lined autoclave and heated in an oven at 125 °C until the salt melted. The pretreated MNF was immersed in the above molten salt and reacted for 5 min. The green MNF was taken out after cooling to the room temperature and washed several times with deionized water and alcohol. The MoNi component (MNC) could be obtained after drying.

# *2.2.2. Synthesis of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF*

One-gram NaH2PO2 and two pieces of MNC were placed in a porcelain boat at the upstream and downstream of tube furnace, respectively, annealed at 350 °C for 2 h at a heating rate of 2 °C min<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> in Ar atmosphere, and then naturally cooled to obtain Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF.

# *2.2.3. Synthesis of Ni2Pv@MNF*

The preparation of Ni2Pv@MNF is similar to that of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF, and the only difference is the removal of ammonium molybdate in the MNC preparation step.

#### *2.2.4. Synthesis of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF-0.5 and Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF-2.0*

The preparation of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF-0.5 and Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF-2.0 is similar to that of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF, and the only difference is that the amount of sodium hypophosphite is changed to 0.5 and 2.0 g respectively during thermal phosphating process.

## **2.3. Materials Characterization**

The structure images were obtained by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) with an accelerating voltage of 10 kV. The transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) images were carried out with a JEM-F200 microscope. The X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were obtained using X'Pert PRO MPD with a 2 range from 5 to 90°at a scan rate of 2° per min. The surface chemistry was analyzed by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) using AXIS SUPRA with an Al *K* source. Raman spectroscopy was recorded on the mentioned Renishaw Raman microscope with an excitation of 532 nm laser under controlled potentials by an electrochemical workstation.

#### **2.4. Electrochemical Measurements**

Electrochemical characterizations of all samples were performed on a Gamry Reference 3000 workstation using a standard threeelectrode system, and the prepared 1 cm × 1 cm sample was

directly used as the working electrode, a saturated calomel electrode was used as the reference electrode, and the counter electrode was a graphite rod. The mass loading of the Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF is 36.8 mg. The catalytic activities were evaluated in 1.0 m KOH, 1.0 m KOH+0.5 m NaCl, 1.0 m KOH+seawater, and 1.0 m KOH+seawater+0.5 m N2H4. All potentials applied were calibrated to the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) using the equation: (RHE): ERHE = ESCE + 0.0592 pH + 0.243. The linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves were recorded at a scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> with iR compensation. The overpotential value () for HER was the calculated ERHE and that for OER was calculated as (V) = ERHE – 1.23 V. The Tafel slope (b) was calculated by = a + b log(j) (j is the current density). The electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was measured in the frequency range from 0.1 Hz to 100 kHz with an amplitude of 5 mV. The stability of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF was tested by chronoamperometry *i*–*t* measurements in different solutions.

#### **2.5. Measurement of Hydrazine Degradation Rate**

The amount of hydrazine in the electrolyte solution was measured by Watt method and Crisp method. The p-dimethyl aminobenzaldehyde (6 g), concentrated hydrochloric acid (30 mL), and ethanol (300 mL) were mixed and used as the chromogenic reagent. An appropriate amount of anolyte was collected periodically at a current density of 500 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and diluted quantitatively with 1.0 m HCl (10 mL), then chromogenic reagent (5 mL) was added and left for 20 min. The concentration of hydrazine was measured at = 457 nm using the UV–vis spectrum of the solution. Standard solutions containing hydrazine hydrate were used for the concentration-absorbance curves.

#### **2.6. Assembly of the Self-Powered Hydrogen Production Systems**

A direct hydrazine fuel cell was prepared with 20% Pt/C on MNF and Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF as anode and cathode, respectively, which were separated by a Nafion 117 membrane. The electrolyte was H2O with saturated O2 and the anode solution was 1.0 m KOH + seawater + 0.5 m N2H4. The fuel cell was connected to the hybrid seawater electrolyzer (HSE), and hydrazine was used as the only consumable fuel to realize self-powered hydrogen production. The solar hydrogen production system was an electrolytic cell connected with a commercial silicon solar cell (6 × 11 cm2, 6 V, 120 mA) and powered by natural sunlight for electrolysis.

## **3. Results and Discussion**

#### **3.1. Synthesis and Characterization of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF Nanosheets**

The synthesis strategy of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF is shown in **Figure 1**a. First, light green MNC precursor in situ grown on MNF was fabricated by blending ammonium molybdate with molten nickel nitrate solution at 125 °C. Figure S1 (Supporting Information) demonstrate the in situ growth of dense nanosheet arrays on MNC surfaces. The Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF catalyst was obtained after thermal phosphating of MNC, and the smooth surface of the nanosheets became rough, which is beneficial to expose more active sites (Figure 1b). The high-resolution SEM image of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF in Figure 1c shows that the average thickness of every nanosheet is ≈300 nm. As comparison, the SEM of the Ni2Pv@MNF without Mo doping is shown in Figure S2 (Supporting Information), which indicates that the doping of Mo does not affect the nanosheet morphology of the catalyst. The TEM image of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF shown in Figure 1d also confirms the welldispersed nanosheet-like structure of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF. Highresolution TEM (HRTEM) reveals that lattice fringes of 0.203 and 0.221 nm can be assigned to the (201) and (111) planes of Ni2P, respectively (Figure 1e). The two sets of diffraction spots given by the selected area electron diffraction pattern (Figure 1f) correspond to the diffraction spots of the (201) and (111) planes of Ni2P, respectively, which confirm the polycrystalline character of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF.[25] The missing lattice in the corresponding fast Fourier transform (FFT) image proves that there is a defective structure in Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF (Figure 1g,h). Furthermore, the corresponding elemental mapping in Figure 1i shows that Ni, P, Mo, and O elements are uniformly distributed in the whole nanosheet, simultaneously demonstrating the successful doping of Mo, and the surface atomic percentages of Mo, Ni, P, and O are 0.38%, 24.58%, 23.51%, and 42.79%, respectively (Figure S3, Supporting Information). The element ratio of MNC and Ni2P@MNF have been shown in Tables S1 and S2 (Supporting Information). Notably, Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF has a superhydrophilic surface, which can enhance the affinity and permeability of electrolytes during electrocatalytic process (Figure 1j,k).[26]

The material structure of the prepared catalysts was detected by X-ray diffraction (XRD). Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF diffraction peaks are all well indexed to Ni2P (JCPDS No. 03–0953) except for the inevitable scratching of the substrate MNF, which indicates that Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF mainly consists of Ni2P phase after phosphating and Mo are doped into Ni2P structure (Figure S4, Supporting Information). The XRD curve of the MNC precursor corresponds to Ni2(OH)2(NO3)2 (JCPDS No.27-0939) (Figure S5, Supporting Information).[27] Pv can be created through a thermal annealing process and **Figure 2**a shows the schematic of construction to Pv in our system, and the etching of the catalyst is caused by the release of a large amount of PH3 gas from the P source.[24] As expected in Figure 2b, a strong symmetric EPR signal with a g value of 2.006 is detected in the Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF sample, which originates from the unpaired electrons captured by P vacancies on the Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF surface.[28] In comparison with the EPR signal of Ni2Pv@MNF without Mo-doping, it is worth mentioning that the P vacancies increases with the doping of Mo, which indicates that the addition of Mo promotes the construction of P vacancies. The element valence and composition of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF were then analyzed by XPS. The survey spectra shows that Ni, Mo, and P elements exist on the surface of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF (Figure 2c).[29] The content of P/C in Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF is lower than that in Ni2Pv@MNF, which further proves the large number of P vacancies in Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF. The XPS spectrum of Mo 3d in Figure 2d confirms the successful doping of Mo, where the Mo 3d3/2 and Mo 3d5/2 at 235.8 and 232.7 eV demonstrate the presence of Mo<sup>6</sup><sup>+</sup> and the peaks at 233.9 and 230.3 eV are assigned to low-valence states of Mo<sup>5</sup><sup>+</sup>. [30] The Ni 2p spectrum in Figure 2e

**Figure 1.** a) Schematic illustration of the formation process of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF. SEM images of b) MNC, and c) Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF. d) TEM, e) HRTEM, f ) SAED of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF. g) HRTEM image and h) Intensity profile of corresponding areas in Figure 1g. i) The corresponding element mapping images of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF. Static water droplets contact angle for j) Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF and k) MNF.

displays that peaks at 852.6 and 869.1 eV are from Ni<sup>0</sup> (Ni–P),[31] while the peaks at 856.9 and 874.9 eV are from Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, and two peaks at 861.5 and 880.2 eV are from satellites.[32,33] The binding energy of Ni 2p in Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF is positively shift relative to Ni2P@MNF, which can be ascribed to the high-valence Mo can play the role of drawing electrons and keeping the Ni in the high-valence state, and also explains the reason that the Ni° content in Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF is lower than that in Ni2Pv@MNF.[27] As for P 2p, peaks at 130.5 and 129.1 eV are from P 2p1/2 and P 2p3/2, and P–O species at 134.7 eV originate from surface oxidation (Figure 2f).[34,35] Ni2P@MNF control sample displays similar peaks compared with Mo-Ni2P@MNF but shift negatively, indicating the electron effect between Mo and P after the introduction of Mo dopants.

#### **3.2. Electrocatalytic Performance of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF for HER and HzOR**

We first evaluated the HER and OER activities of the prepared catalysts at room temperature (25 °C) in 1.0 m KOH electrolyte, and benchmark Pt/C and RuO2 catalysts on MNF were also included for comparison. As shown in **Figure 3**a, the Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF catalyst exhibits significantly improved HER and OER activities, requiring low potentials of 259 and 410 mV to reach industrial current density of −3000 and 1000 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, respectively, which are significantly lower than those of MNC (482 and 500 mV), MNF (538 and 700 mV), and Ni2Pv@MNF (412 and 450 mV) control samples. The HER and OER performance of the as-prepared catalysts for polarization curves in 1.0 m KOH without iR compensation are shown in Figure S6 (Supporting Information). Tafel plots show that the Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF catalyst has a relatively smaller Tafel slope of 70.9 and 152.9 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> in comparison with that of the other as-prepared samples in HER and OER, verifying its rapid HER/OER catalytic kinetics (Figures S7a and S8a, Supporting Information). The charge transfer resistance between the catalyst and electrolyte was investigated by electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS). The small semicircle in the high‑frequency region indicates a low charge transfer resistance (*R*ct). As shown in Figures S7b and S8b (Supporting Information), the *R*ct of the EIS Nyquist curve of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF is the smallest in both HER and OER. The ECSA is represented by the electrochemical double-layer capacitance (Cdl) (Figures S9 and S10, Supporting Information), where the

**Figure 2.** a) Schematic of construction process of Pv for Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF. b) EPR spectra of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF (inset is EPR spectra of Ni2Pv@MNF). c) XPS survey of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF. d) High-resolution XPS of Mo 3d of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF. High-resolution XPS of e) Ni 2p and f) P 2p of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF and Ni2P@MNF.

Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF affords a larger active surface area compared to Ni2Pv@MNF, MNC, and MNF. Meanwhile, the turnover frequency (TOF) was estimated to reveal the intrinsic catalytic performance of each active site based on the CVs (Figure S11, Supporting Information), which shows the CVs for as-prepared samples in phosphate buffer (pH = 7) at a scan rate of 50 mV s<sup>−</sup>1. [36] Figure S12 (Supporting Information) shows the polarization curves of HER and OER which are normalized for the active sites and are expressed in the light of TOF, which suggests that Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF possesses abundant active sites and highly intrinsic catalytic activity. Figure 3b,c and Tables S3 and S4 (Supporting Information) summarize the comprehensive comparisons of the HER and OER performance of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF with Ni2Pv@MNF, MNC and MNF based on the above tests, demonstrating the Mo-doping and rich P vacancies can synergistically enhance the HER and OER performance. The excellent performance of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF also outperforms most of bifunctional catalysts at 1.0 m KOH (Figure 3d; and Table S5, Supporting Information). To investigate the effect of phosphating degree on catalyst performance, we introduced different amounts of phosphorus sources. The SEM of the catalyst with different phosphating amount is shown in Figures S13 and S14 (Supporting Information). As shown in Figure S15 (Supporting Information), the crystal defects of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF gradually increase with the increase of the amount of P source, which is mainly due to the etching of the catalyst caused by the release of a large amount of PH3 gas from the excess P source. The comparison of various electrochemical parameters shows that Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF has better electrocatalytic activity and easier kinetics when the phosphating amount is 1.0 g (Figure S16, Supporting Information). When the phosphating amount is too low, sufficient P defects are not generated.

**Figure 3.** a) HER and OER performance of the as-prepared catalysts for polarization curves in 1.0 m KOH. Comprehensive comparisons of the b) HER and c) OER performance of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF with Ni2Pv@MNF, MNC, and MNF. d) Comparison of the overpotentials with other reported bifunctional electrocatalysts in 1.0 m KOH at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. e) Polarization curves, f) corresponding Tafel plots and overpotentials for HER in different solutions. g) Polarization curves, h) corresponding Tafel plots and overpotentials for OER and HzOR. i) Chronoamperometry *i*–*t* curve of 24 h for HER and HzOR.

However, the periodicity of the crystalline structure will be reduced with the increase of defect concentration, which will reduce the stability of the catalyst. Therefore, too high or too low phosphating amount will affect the catalytic performance of the catalyst.

Considering the excellent HER/OER catalytic activity of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF in 1.0 m KOH electrolyte, we further evaluated the electrocatalytic performance in alkaline simulated seawater (1.0 m KOH + 0.5 m NaCl) and alkaline natural seawater (1.0 m KOH + seawater). The natural seawater is taken from the Shilaoren Beach (Qingdao, Shandong, China). As shown in Figure 3e, the Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF nanosheet arrays still exhibit remarkable HER catalytic activity in the alkaline simulated seawater and alkaline natural seawater electrolyte. An overpotential of only 303 mV is required to achieve an industrial current density of −3000 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, and it also has a Tafel slope as low as 74.5 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> (Figure 3f; Figure S17, Supporting Information) and small semicircular diameter in the EIS spectrum in 1.0 m KOH + seawater (Figure S18, Supporting Information). The Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF nanosheet arrays also exhibit remarkable OER catalytic activity in alkaline simulated and natural seawater electrolytes, respectively (Figure 3g). The polarization curves for Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF before and after 3000 CV cycles in 1 m KOH + 0.5 m NaCl exhibit the almost similar curves, which indicates that the Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF has certain ability to resist corrosion of Cl<sup>−</sup> (Figure S19, Supporting Information). However, the ClOR exists in seawater as a competitor to OER and the ClOR of the two-electron reaction is kinetically more favorable than the OER of the four-electron transfer. But in alkaline solution, the higher redox potential of Cl2/ClO2 makes ClOR thermodynamically less favorable than OER, with a potential difference of 480 mV. Therefore, ClOR can be thermodynamically inhibited below a potential of 1.709 V to RHE.[37] HzOR provides an additional potential to prevent ClOR during electrolysis without limiting the current and H2 yield. A typical threeelectrode system was used to study the hydrazine oxidation performance of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF in alkaline medium. As shown in Figure 3h, Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF needs extremely low voltage potentials of 62 and 126 mV to achieve high current density of 500 and 1000 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> in 1.0 m KOH+seawater+0.5 m N2H4, respectively. However, to achieve the same current density, the sluggish OER requires 14−28 times higher potentials (1.75−1.81 V) in alkaline seawater system without N2H4. The low Tafel slope of 48.9 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> (Figure S20, Supporting In**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.afm-journal.de**

16163028, 2023, 46, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202300625 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

formation) and small *R*ct further reveal the fast reaction and charge transfer kinetics (Figure S21, Supporting Information). Chronoamperometry *i*–*t* curves show that Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF have almost no current decay for HER and HzOR in seawater within 24 h, confirming the possibility of commercialization of the Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF electrocatalyst system (Figure 3i). In addition, SEM images after stability test show that the nanosheet structure of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF catalyst has strong support and high integrity, which is conducive to the continuous and efficient electrolysis of the catalyst (Figure S22, Supporting Information). The changes of the surface chemical states before and after the stability test of HER and HzOR were inspected by XPS. All of the high-resolution Ni 2p XPS spectra can be deconvoluted into Ni<sup>0</sup> and Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> and the phosphides peaks can still be clearly observed, which indicates that the material compositions of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF have no obvious change during HER and HzOR process (Figure S23, Supporting Information).[29]

#### **3.3. Electrocatalytic Performance of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF as Bifunctional Catalyst for OHzS in Seawater**

Based on the excellent HER and HzOR catalytic performance of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF, a two-electrode electrolyzer was assembled with Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF as the anode and cathode, respectively. First, we compared the LSV curves for two-electrode electrolysis of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF couple in different solutions. The LSV curves between OHzS and OWS show that the energy efficiency can be improved intuitively by using HzOR to assist hydrogen production and only require an ultralow battery voltage of 298 and 450 mV to achieve 100 and 500 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (**Figure 4**a). Figure S24 (Supporting Information) shows that Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF couples also has better catalytic performance compared with Pt/C||RuO2 in 1 m KOH+seawater+0.5 m N2H4. The excellent catalytic OHzS performance of the Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF is superior than that of most recently reported bifunctional catalysts (Table S6, Supporting Information). To further investigate the Faradaic efficiency (FE) during the whole seawater electrolysis process, a home-made water splitting device by the drainage method was constructed using the self-sustaining electrodes of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF as cathode and anode (Figure 4b). Anodegenerated N2 and cathode-generated H2 were collected in graduated cylinders (Figure 4c), respectively. Figures S25 and S26 (Supporting Information) show the gas volume comparison between anode and cathode at different time intervals. The last N2/H2 volume ratio is measured to be 1:2 at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which is consistent with the theoretical value of 1:2, and the obtained hydrogen rate is 2.0 mmol h<sup>−</sup>1. In addition, the real hydrogen production measured in Figure 4d is in good agreement with the theoretical hydrogen production, indicating that the Faradaic efficiency (FE) of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF couples for H2 production is close to 100%. From Figure 4e and Figure S27 (Supporting Information), it can be calculated that 3.44 W·h of electricity can be saved to produce per liter of H2 on the Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF-based electrode compared with alkaline seawater electrolysis, which proves that hydrazine oxidation assistance can effectively save energy for hydrogen production. Furthermore, the OHzS are connected to photovoltaic cells powered by easily harvested and free solar energy to enable solar-powered hydrogen production. OHzS produces more mixed gas than OWS at the same time and the same light intensity, which leads to more sustainable and cost-effective hydrogen production (Figure 4f; Figure S28, Supporting Information). More importantly, at a current density of 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, the Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF activity can be well maintained for more than 1000 h without decay in 1.0 m KOH+seawater+0.5 m N2H4 solution (Figure 4g). Figure S29 (Supporting Information) shows the chronoamperometry *i*– *t* curves of the Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF couple in 1.0 m KOH, 1.0 m KOH+seawater and 1.0 m KOH+seawater+0.5 m N2H4 at a current density of 500 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, demonstrating the excellent stability of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF at industrial current density. Furthermore, as shown in the left inset, the potential remains constant for 1 h at a constant current density from 100 to 600 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (intervals of 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) using the multi-step chronopotentiodynamic method. In the middle inset, after 3000 consecutive cyclic voltammetry (CV) scans at a scan rate of 120 mV s<sup>−</sup>1, the performance of the Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF electrode is almost similar to the initial cycle. In addition, the post OHzS electrolyte is monitored by potassium iodide starch paper and no color change appears in the right inset, which shows the excellent OHzS selectivity and anti-corrosion property in alkaline seawater.[38] The above characterization further verifies its electrochemical stability.

#### **3.4. Demonstration of Self-Powered H2 Production and Degradation of Industrial Hydrazine Wastewater**

To meet the demands of high power, electrolysis of seawater often requires large-scale renewable energy systems. The low electricity consumption of HSE provides the feasibility of integration with smaller-scale renewable energy sources such as fuel cells and solar cells, which can reduce the complexity and capital consumption of hydrogen production systems. We demonstrate selfpowered hydrogen production to validate the potential practical application of Mo-Ni2Pv@NF in feasibility, which consists of a home-made direct hydrazine fuel cell (DHzFC) integrated with an OHzS unit composed of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF bifunctional catalysts (**Figure 5**a). Figure 5b is digital photograph of integrated H2 production system powered of the DHzFC, where N2H4 was oxidized to N2 and O2 was reduced to H2O. At room temperature, the open circuit voltage (OCV) of the DHzFC is stable at ≈0.92 V, which means it can provide power for HzOR-assisted H2 production (Figure S30, Supporting Information). The discharge polarization and the corresponding power density curves show that the maximum power density of 37.06 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> can be delivered at a current density of 98.31 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> in 1.0 m KOH+seawater+0.5 m N2H4 electrolyte (Figure 5c). In the absence of an external power source, the hydrogen production of the cathode is measured by the drainage method as shown in Figure S31 (Supporting Information). There is a good linear relationship between H2 yield and electrolysis time and the yield are calculated to be 0.90 mmol h<sup>−</sup>1, which further demonstrates its practical value for applications in the storage and conversion of renewable energy materials (Figure 5d). In the above self-powered hydrogen production system, hydrazine can provide high energy and power density as the only supplied consumable in the electro-

**Figure 4.** a) LSV curves of the Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF couple in 1.0 m KOH+seawater+0.5 m N2H4 and 1.0 m KOH+ seawater. b) The gas collection device of alkaline seawater splitting. c) The corresponding photographs of H2 and N2 varying with time in 1.0 m KOH+seawater+0.5 m N2H4. d) Comparison between the amount of collected and theoretical gaseous products (H2 and N2) for OHzS. e) The power consumption varying with amount of H2. f) Image of the electrocatalytic powered by the solar panels. g) Chronoamperometry *i*–*t* curve of the Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF couple in 1.0 m KOH+seawater+0.5 m N2H4 for 1000 h (Left inset shows the multi-current electrochemical process of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF; middle inset shows the polarization curves for Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF before and after 3000 CV cycles; and right inset shows the image of the potassium iodide starch paper immersed in the electrolyte after 1000 h *i*–*t* test).

oxidation process without generating greenhouse gases. However, hydrazine is an environmental pollutant and is highly toxic and carcinogenic to human health. It is therefore important to strictly limit the threshold for hydrazine in surface water. OHzScoupled HzOR does not require the use of additional oxidants or complex separation techniques to achieve effective degradation of hydrazine wastewater and hydrogen evolution simultaneously, achieving "two birds with one stone". It is able to degrade hydrazine residues in solution down to ≈3 ppb at a high current density of 500 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which is lower than the allowable value (10 ppb) specified by EPA30,[21] and maintain stable hydrazine treatment in repeated cycles (Figures S32 and S33, Supporting Information). After being encouraged, we carried out the hydrazine degradation of actual industrial wastewater. Surprisingly, excellent degradation effect can also be obtained, and the residual amount of hydrazine in solution can be degraded to less than 5 ppb, which shows high effectiveness in practical applications (Figure 5e,f). Therefore, it is quite feasible to couple cost-free seawater with hydrazine hydrate industrial sewage to a renewable energy-driven HSE under strong solar radiation and wind to achieve low-cost and sustainable green hydrogen production (Figure 5g).[21]

#### **3.5. DFT Calculations of Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF for HER and HzOR**

To understand the role of Pv and Mo doping in Mo-Ni2Pv for alkaline HER and HzOR, DFT calculations were performed based on the crystal configuration (**Figure 6**a; Figure S34, Supporting Information). There is a large amount of electron accumulation and depletion inside Mo-Ni2Pv, which implies obvious electron transfer in the Ni2P crystal. The slice of the 3D

1616392, 2023, 46, Downadaed from https://advanced.onineliblary.wilej.co.ordoi/10.1002/atmf.202300625 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/10205]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Library (or [10] 1000 and the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library of the common Library

Figure 5. a) Schematic illustration of a self-powered  $H_2$  production system integrating a home-made DHzFC and an OHzS unit. b) Digital photograph of integrated  $H_2$  production system powered by DHzFC. c) Discharge polarization curve and power density plot of DHzFC. d) The  $H_2$  production rate from the self-powered OHzS in 1.0 M KOH+seawater+0.5 M  $H_2$  and 1.0 M KOH+seawater. e) UV-vis spectra and f) optical image of the colorimetric industrial  $H_2$  wastewater assay of the anolyte after electrolysis for different times at 500 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> (the inset is the color of industrial  $H_2$  wastewater at different time). g) Schematic illustration of cost-effective and sustainable hydrogen production from renewables-powered HSE with cost-free seawater and industrial hydrazine sewage as the feeds.

charge density isosurface in Figure 6b shows that the presence of P<sub>v</sub> makes the electrons deplete in the overlapping region of Ni 3d and P 2p, while accumulated on individual Ni and P atoms (the accumulation of electrons is yellow and the depletion of electrons is blue). In general, P, weakens the orbital hybridization between Ni 3d and P 2p, enriching the electron density of Ni and P atoms near P<sub>v</sub>. Figure 6c shows the total density of states (TDOS) and the corresponding d-band center values of the Ni<sub>2</sub>P, Mo-Ni<sub>2</sub>P and Mo-Ni<sub>2</sub>P<sub>v</sub>. The d-band center of -1.752 and -1.903 eV for Ni<sub>2</sub>P and Mo-Ni<sub>2</sub>P, respectively, is closer to the Fermi level, indicating its strong adsorption force but not conducive to desorption. However, the d-band center of −2.293 eV for Mo-Ni<sub>2</sub>P<sub>v</sub> is far away from the Fermi level, which is beneficial to the desorption of intermediate and the subsequent electrochemical reactions.[39] The H2O dissociation barrier of Mo-Ni<sub>2</sub>P<sub>w</sub> and Ni<sub>2</sub>P in alkaline electrolyte are shown in Figure S35 (Supporting Information), which demonstrates that the Mo-Ni<sub>2</sub>P<sub>v</sub> with Mo doping and P vacancy has lower H<sub>2</sub>O

dissociation energy. The Gibbs free energy of hydrogen adsorption ( $\Delta G_{H^*}$ ) on the surface of catalyst was used to evaluate HER performance. [40] The  $\Delta G_{H^*}$  value which closes to thermal neutrality favors the hydrogen adsorption and desorption process. The free energy diagram of HER (Figure 6d) shows that the  $\Delta G_{H^*}$  of the Mo-Ni<sub>2</sub>P $_{\rm v}$  surface (–0.171 eV) is closer to the 0 eV than that of Ni<sub>2</sub>P (–0.485 eV) and Mo-Ni<sub>2</sub>P (–0.239 eV), which reveals that Mo-Ni<sub>2</sub>P $_{\rm v}$  has good H\* adsorption/desorption kinetics for HER. [41]

For HzOR, it is of interest to study the underlying electrochemical reaction mechanism between defective metal phosphides and catalytic activity. The oxidation of hydrazine into nitrogen takes place in the following six successive basic steps:<sup>[14]</sup>

$$* + N_2H_4 \rightarrow N_2H_4*$$
 (1)

$$N_2H_4* \to N_2H_3* + H^+ + e^-$$
 (2)

**Figure 6.** a) The atomic structure model of Mo-Ni2Pv. b) The 3D charge density of Mo-Ni2Pv. c) The DOS of Ni2P, Mo-Ni2P and Mo-Ni2Pv. d) The free-energy diagram of HER at the equilibrium potential for Ni2P, Mo-Ni2P and Mo-Ni2Pv. e) The free-energy profiles of HzOR on the Ni2P, Mo-Ni2P and Mo-Ni2Pv surfaces, and the inset in e) are the most stable configurations of the each adsorbed intermediate.

$$N_2H_3 * \rightarrow N_2H_2 * + H^+ + e^-$$
 (3)

$$N_2H_2 * \rightarrow N_2H * + H^+ + e^-$$
 (4)

$$N_2H * \rightarrow N_2 * + H^+ + e^-$$
 (5)

$$N_2 * \rightarrow * + N_2 \tag{6}$$

As shown in Figure 6e, based on comparing the free energy change of each dehydrogenation step for different sample catalysts, it can be deduced that the dehydrogenation of \*N2H4 to \*NHNH2 is the potential determination step (PDS) for the Ni2P, Mo-Ni2P, and Mo-Ni2Pv for HzOR. The ΔG value of PDS for Mo-Ni2Pv (0.40 eV) is lower than that for Mo-Ni2P (0.65 eV) and Ni2P (1.11 eV),[42] which proves that Mo doping and Pv synergistically improve the intrinsic kinetics of HzOR reaction. Meanwhile, Mo-Ni2Pv exhibits the more negative ΔG\*N2H4 (−1.65 eV) compared with Ni2P (−0.70 eV) and Mo-Ni2P (−1.21 eV), which is more favorable for the adsorption of N2H4 and the further catalytic oxidation. The above results indicate that the doping of Mo and the construction of P defects can greatly optimize the electronic structure of Mo-Ni2Pv, which promote the hydrogen adsorption of HER and the thermodynamic behavior of dehydrogenation during HzOR.

## **4. Conclusion**

In conclusion, we developed a self-grown Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF nanosheet array on molybdenum-nickel foam (MNF) with rich P vacancies, which exhibits excellent bifunctional activity for HER and HzOR in alkaline seawater. The Mo-Ni2Pv@MNF electrode used as bifunctional catalyst for overall hydrazine splitting (OHzS) in seawater can achieve industrial current density of 1000 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at an ultralow input voltage of 571 V and can maintain stable for an ultra-long time of 1000 h. Moreover, the DHzFC with the power density of 37.06 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> is assembled to drive OHzS to achieve the self-powered H2 production. The industrial hydrazine sewage as feed can be degraded to ≈5 ppb rapidly in above eletrolysis system. DFT calculations demonstrate that due to the electronic structure modulation induced by P vacancies and Mo doping, the thermoneutral ΔGH\* for HER and the intrinsically enhanced dehydrogenation kinetics from \*N2H4 to \*NHNH2 for HzOR are realized.

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# **Acknowledgements**

J.C. and L.G. contributed equally to this work. This work was financially supported from the National Natural Science Foundation of China

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.afm-journal.de**

16163028, 2023, 46, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202300625 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

(51772162, 52072197, and 52174283), Outstanding Youth Foundation of Shandong Province, China (ZR2019JQ14), the Natural Science Foundation of Shandong Province (ZR2021QE165), Youth Innovation and Technology Foundation of Shandong Higher Education Institutions, China (2019KJC004), Major Scientific and Technological Innovation Project (2019JZZY020405), Major Basic Research Program of Natural Science Foundation of Shandong Province under Grant (ZR2020ZD09), and Taishan Scholar Young Talent Program (tsqn201909114), the 111 Project of China (Grant No. D20017).

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Data Availability Statement**

Research data are not shared.

# **Keywords**

hydrazine oxidation reaction, hydrogen evolution reactions, Mo-doped Ni2P, p vacancies, seawater splitting

> Received: February 22, 2023 Published online: July 12, 2023

- [1] X. Wu, S. Zhou, Z. Wang, J. Liu, W. Pei, P. Yang, J. Zhao, J. Qiu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2019**, *9*, 1901333.
- [2] J. Kim, H. Jung, S. M. Jung, J. Hwang, D. Y. Kim, N. Lee, K. S. Kim, H. Kwon, Y. T. Kim, J. W. Han, J. K. Kim, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2021**, *143*, 1399.
- [3] W. Yang, W. Zhang, R. Liu, F. Lv, Y. Chao, Z. Wang, S. Guo, *Chin. J. Catal.* **2022**, *43*, 110.
- [4] Z. Xiao, M. Yang, C. Liu, B. Wang, S. Zhang, J. Liu, Z. Xu, R. Gao, J.-J. Zou, A. Tang, H. Yang, *Nano Energy* **2022**, *98*, 107233.
- [5] M. Wang, H. Yang, J. Shi, Y. Chen, Y. Zhou, L. Wang, S. Di, X. Zhao, J. Zhong, T. Cheng, W. Zhou, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 5771.
- [6] T. Cui, X. Zhai, L. Guo, J.-Q. Chi, Y. Zhang, J. Zhu, X. Sun, L. Wang, *Chin. J. Catal.* **2022**, *43*, 2202.
- [7] L. Guo, Q. Yu, X. Zhai, J. Chi, T. Cui, Y. Zhang, J. Lai, L. Wang, *Nano Res.* **2022**, *15*, 8846.
- [8] Y. Lin, K. Sun, X. Chen, C. Chen, Y. Pan, X. Li, J. Zhang, *J. Energy Chem.* **2021**, *55*, 92.
- [9] W. Tong, M. Forster, F. Dionigi, S. Dresp, R. Sadeghi Erami, P. Strasser, A. J. Cowan, P. Farràs, *Nat. Energy* **2020**, *5*, 367.
- [10] J. Chang, G. Wang, Z. Yang, B. Li, Q. Wang, R. Kuliiev, N. Orlovskaya, M. Gu, Y. Du, G. Wang, Y. Yang, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2101425.
- [11] D. Guo, X. Li, Y. Jiao, H. Yan, A. Wu, G. Yang, Y. Wang, C. Tian, H. Fu, *Nano Res.* **2022**, *15*, 238.
- [12] Z. Wang, C. Wang, L. Ye, X. Liu, L. Xin, Y. Yang, L. Wang, W. Hou, Y. Wen, T. Zhan, *Inorg. Chem.* **2022**, *61*, 15256.
- [13] L. Wu, F. Zhang, S. Song, M. Ning, Q. Zhu, J. Zhou, G. Gao, Z. Chen, Q. Zhou, X. Xing, T. Tong, Y. Yao, J. Bao, L. Yu, S. Chen, Z. Ren, *Adv.*

- *Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2201774.
- [14] Y. Liu, J. Zhang, Y. Li, Q. Qian, Z. Li, Y. Zhu, G. Zhang, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 1853.
- [15] Y. Liu, J. Zhang, Y. Li, Q. Qian, Z. Li, G. Zhang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2103673.
- [16] Y. Li, Y. Zhao, F.-M. Li, Z. Dang, P. Gao, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2021**, *13*, 34457.
- [17] Y. Li, J. Zhang, Y. Liu, Q. Qian, Z. Li, Y. Zhu, G. Zhang, *Sci. Adv.* **2020**, *6*, eabb4197.
- [18] Y. Li, J. Li, Q. Qian, X. Jin, Y. Liu, Z. Li, Y. Zhu, Y. Guo, G. Zhang, *Small* **2021**, *17*, 2008148.
- [19] X. Tang, J.-Y. Zhang, B. Mei, X. Zhang, Y. Liu, J. Wang, W. Li, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2021**, *404*, 126529.
- [20] H. Su, S. Song, Y. Gao, N. Li, Y. Fu, L. Ge, W. Song, J. Liu, T. Ma, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2109731.
- [21] F. Sun, J. Qin, Z. Wang, M. Yu, X. Wu, X. Sun, J. Qiu, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 4182.
- [22] W. Zhong, Z. Wang, N. Gao, L. Huang, Z. Lin, Y. Liu, F. Meng, J. Deng, S. Jin, Q. Zhang, L. Gu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 22743.
- [23] Z. Xiao, Y. Wang, Y.-C. Huang, Z. Wei, C.-L. Dong, J. Ma, S. Shen, Y. Li, S. Wang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2017**, *10*, 2563.
- [24] J. Duan, S. Chen, C. A. Ortiz-Ledon, M. Jaroniec, S. Z. Qiao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 8181.
- [25] F. Zheng, W. Zhang, X. Zhang, Y. Zhang, W. Chen, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2170323.
- [26] Y. Xu, S. Yu, T. Ren, S. Liu, Z. Wang, X. Li, L. Wang, H. Wang, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2020**, *12*, 34728.
- [27] J. Zhang, S. Guo, B. Xiao, Z. Lin, L. Yan, D. Du, S. Shen, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2021**, *416*, 129127.
- [28] Y. Huang, M. Li, F. Pan, Z. Zhu, H. Sun, Y. Tang, G. Fu, *Carbon Energy* **2022**, https://doi.org/10.1002/cey2.279.
- [29] Q. Qian, Y. Li, Y. Liu, Y. Guo, Z. Li, Y. Zhu, G. Zhang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2021**, *414*, 128818.
- [30] X. Huang, H. Xu, D. Cao, D. Cheng, *Nano Energy* **2020**, *78*, 105253.
- [31] Y. Yan, J. Lin, J. Cao, S. Guo, X. Zheng, J. Feng, J. Qi, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2019**, *7*, 24486.
- [32] B. Qiu, L. Cai, Y. Wang, Z. Lin, Y. Zuo, M. Wang, Y. Chai, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2018**, *28*, 1706008.
- [33] W. Xu, J. Chang, Y. Cheng, H. Liu, J. Li, Y. Ai, Z. Hu, X. Zhang, Y. Wang, Q. Liang, Y. Yang, H. Sun, *Nano Res.* **2022**, *15*, 965.
- [34] Z. Yan, Z. Sun, A. Li, H. Liu, Z. Guo, L. Zhao, J. Feng, L. Qian, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *429*, 132249.
- [35] X. Jin, H. Jang, N. Jarulertwathana, M. G. Kim, S.-J. Hwang, *ACS Nano* **2022**, *16*, 16452.
- [36] Z.-Z. Liu, X. Shang, B. Dong, Y. -M. Chai, *J. Catal.* **2018**, *361*, 204.
- [37] L. Wu, L. Yu, B. McElhenny, X. Xing, D. Luo, F. Zhang, J. Bao, S. Chen, Z. Ren, *Appl. Catal. B* **2021**, *294*, 120256.
- [38] N. Wen, Y. Xia, H. Wang, D. Zhang, H. Wang, X. Wang, X. Jiao, D. Chen, *Adv. Sci.* **2022**, *9*, 2200529.
- [39] S. Geng, F. Tian, M. Li, X. Guo, Y. Yu, W. Yang, Y. Hou, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, 8561.
- [40] J. Zhang, X. Shang, H. Ren, J. Chi, H. Fu, B. Dong, C. Liu, Y. Chai, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1905107.
- [41] B. Song, K. Li, Y. Yin, T. Wu, L. Dang, M. Cabán-Acevedo, J. Han, T. Gao, X. Wang, Z. Zhang, J. R. Schmidt, P. Xu, S. Jin, *ACS Catal.* **2017**, *7*, 8549.
- [42] Q. Qian, J. Zhang, J. Li, Y. Li, X. Jin, Y. Zhu, Y. Liu, Z. Li, A. El-Harairy, C. Xiao, G. Zhang, Y. Xie, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 5984.