---
source: Feng 等 - 2024 - Modulation of Charge Redistribution in Heterogeneous CoSe‐Ni0.95 Se Coupling with Ti.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 74.939s
generated: 2026-01-10T07:19:26.038288Z
---

# **Modulation of Charge Redistribution in Heterogeneous CoSe-Ni0.95Se Coupling with Ti3C2Tx MXene for Hydrazine-Assisted Water Splitting**

*Zhongbao Feng,\* Haoyu Meng, Yumo Fu, Lili Ren, Bo Gao, and Wentao Liu*

**Integrating abundant dual sites of hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR) and hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) into one catalyst is extremely urgent toward energy-saving H2 production. Herein, CoSe-Ni0.95Se heterostructure coupling with Ti3C2Tx MXene (CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene) is fabricated on nickel foam (NF) to enhance the catalytic performance. The heterogeneous CoSe-Ni0.95Se and MXene coupling effect can change the coordination of Ni and Co, resulting in adjusted interfacial electronic field and enhanced electron transfer from Ni0.95Se to CoSe especially near MXene surface. Also, the appearance of MXene can anchor more active sites, thereby abundant nucleophilic CoSe and electrophilic Ni0.95Se are formed induced by the charge redistribution, which can tailor d-band center, moderate \*H adsorption free energy (∆GH \*) and facilitate adsorption/desorption for hydrazine intermediates, contributing to much enhanced HER and HzOR performance. For example, the low potentials of −160.8 and 116.1 mV at 400 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> are seen for HER and HzOR with long-term stability of 7 days. When assembled as overall hydrazine splitting (OHzS), a small cell voltage of 0.35 V to drive 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> is obtained. Such concept of integrating abundant nucleophilic and electrophilic dual sites and regulating their d-band centers can offer in-depth understandings to design efficient bifunctional HER and HzOR electrocatalysts.**

Z. Feng

Key Laboratory for Ecological Metallurgy of Multimetallic Mineral (Ministry of Education)

Northeastern University Shenyang 110819, China

E-mail: [fengzb@smm.neu.edu.cn](mailto:fengzb@smm.neu.edu.cn)

Z. Feng

Engineering Research Center of Frontier Technologies for Low-carbon

Steelmaking (Ministry of Education) Northeastern University

Shenyang 110819, China

Z. Feng, H. Meng, Y. Fu, B. Gao, W. Liu

School of Metallurgy

Northeastern University

Shenyang 110819, China

L. Ren

Shenyang Aircraft Industry (Group) Co. Ltd.

Shenyang 110034, China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202403270>

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202403270**

# **1. Introduction**

Electrochemical water splitting for hydrogen production is a most promising strategy to alleviate energy shortage and environmental issue.[\[1,2\]](#page-10-0) Overall water splitting (OWS) involves two reactions: the cathodic hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and anodic oxygen evolution reaction (OER), however the sluggish kinetics of OER severely hinders its energy efficiency.[\[3–6\]](#page-10-0) Recently, hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR) has been proposed to substitute OER via the construction of overall hydrazine splitting (OHzS) toward energy-saving hydrogen generation owing to its remarkably smaller theoretical overall cell voltage and higher safety to avoid the explosion crisis of cathodic H2 and anodic O2 mixture in non-membrane cell.[\[7\]](#page-10-0) The main issue for H2 production by water splitting is to realize industrial-level application, thus more efforts should be made to develop new bifunctional catalysts for both high-performance HER and HzOR, especially at high current densities.[\[8\]](#page-10-0)

Recently, numerous works have been focused to investigate bifunctional

electrocatalysts for OHzS, for example transition metal samples including their phosphides, nitrides, oxides, sulfides, and selenides.[\[9–15\]](#page-10-0) Among them, transition metal selenides (TMSes) have received more attention owing to the negatively charged Se atoms that can promote hydrogen adsorption in HER.[\[16\]](#page-10-0) Also, it is shown that the adsorption of the N2Hy intermediates can be easily regulated by TMSes due to the finely moderated electronic state that can facilitate dehydrogenation process in HzOR.[\[17\]](#page-10-0) Different methods are made to enhance catalytical activity and stability of TMSes, such as heteroatom doping,[\[18,19\]](#page-10-0) morphological control,[\[20,21\]](#page-10-0) and composition regulation,[\[22,23\]](#page-10-0) however the bifunctional electrocatalytic performance of TMSes for HER and HzOR is still unsatisfied due to the totally different intermediates during HzOR and HER, let alone precise synthesis of the electrocatalyst with high active sites.[\[24\]](#page-10-0) Heterostructure construction is one of promising methods to improve the intrinsic electrocatalytic performance of catalysts.[\[25–29\]](#page-10-0) The heterogeneous strategy can introduce different energy levels into together that can not only provide interfacial electric field for electron transfer, but also

offer lots of migration channels to shorten the electron transfer path.[\[30–33\]](#page-10-0) Nevertheless, most of reported electrocatalysts are not acceptable because of the incompatible active sites toward both HzOR and HER. In general, the catalytic performance of the electrocatalysts is mostly determined by the absorption capacity of reaction intermediates with their active sites.[\[34,35\]](#page-10-0) The intermediates of HER tend to absorb on nucleophilic sites with electronrich state,[\[36\]](#page-10-0) while the intermediates of HzOR are more likely to absorb on electrophilic sites with electron-deficiency state.[\[37\]](#page-10-0) Thus, it is an efficient strategy by integrating nucleophilic and electrophilic sites into one electrocatalyst for OHzS. However, few studies have focused on this issue due to the fact that the synthesis of a single TMSes catalyst with both nucleophilic and electrophilic sites is still a great challenge. The interfacial electric field caused by energy level difference within two components is relatively weak.[\[38\]](#page-10-0) To enhance the interfacial electric field further, it is urgently needed to adjust the energy level structure of the electrocatalyst. Some previous works have indicated that the coupling of MXene with catalyst can regulate its energy level structure, resulting in much enhanced electrocatalytic performance without disturbing the crystal structure.[\[39\]](#page-10-0) Moreover, the appearance of MXene can anchor the active sites of the catalyst to avoid their aggregation.[\[40,41\]](#page-10-0) It is highly desired that such coupling effect could strengthen the energy level difference that can improve inner electric field for heterogeneous TMSes, and hence facilitating electron transfer to form expected nucleophilic and electrophilic sites. Nevertheless, few investigations are made to couple TMSes with MXene for developing such unique dual sites to electrolyze HzOR and HER simultaneously, especially at high current density. Furthermore, the deeply understandings of the underlying electrolytic mechanisms of nucleo/electrophilic sites are necessary to design bifunctional electrocatalysts with highperformance for energy-saving H2 generation but rare attentions have been focused.

Herein, heterogeneous CoSe-Ni0.95Se with nanosheet arrays is coupled with Ti3C2Tx MXene (denoted as CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene) on nickel foam (NF) by electrodeposition successfully. The electro-rich CoSe serves as nucleophilic sites and electrodeficiency Ni0.95Se acts as electrophilic sites, whereas MXene is coupled to strengthen the built-in electric field within CoSe and Ni0.95Se by tailoring the energy level structure. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations indicate that the synthesis of CoSe-Ni0.95Se with MXene can lead to the charge redistribution of the catalyst, tailing the d-band center, which can not only facilitate the formation of abundant electrophilic CoSe for HER with moderated \*H adsorption (∆GH\*), but also promote the appearance of rich nucleophilic Ni0.95Se for HzOR with adjusted adsorption/desorption of hydrazine intermediates, thereby the boosted HzOR and HER activity and durability are obtained. Impressively, CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene only demands ultralow potentials of −49.6 and −19.5 mV versus RHE to achieve 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, and still low potentials of −160.8 and 116.1 mV versus RHE to afford 400 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for HER and HzOR, respectively. Moreover, when a two-electrode OHzS cell is assembled, a small cell voltage of 0.35 V is obtained at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. The present study can provide an efficient approach to design bifunctional catalysts with highperformance toward energy-saving H2 production via strengthening the integrating effect of nucleophilic and electrophilic sites into single heterogeneous TMSe.

# **2. Results and Discussion**

## **2.1. Materials Characterizations**

As illustrated in **Figure [1](#page-2-0)**, the synthesis of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene composite on NF mainly contains two steps. First, the acid etching and exfoliation strategy is used to obtain the Ti3C2Tx MXene. The Tyndall phenomenon can be observed from its colloid electrolyte, indicating the successful fabrication of Ti3C2Tx MXene (Figure S1, Supporting Information). The transformation from T3AlC2 MAX to Ti3C2Tx MXene is evident by the layer morphology (Figure S2, Supporting Information). This is also firmly proved by Raman spectra of Ti3C2Tx MXene (Figure S3, Supporting Information). The appearance of 205, 619, and 722 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> peaks can be related to pure Ti3C2Tx MXene, which is consistent with the previous studies.[\[42,43\]](#page-10-0) Then, CoSe-Ni0.95Se was electrodeposited on Ti3C2Tx MXene surface by CV method. Furthermore, Ni0.95Se, CoSe, and CoSe-Ni0.95Se were also electrodeposited on NF for comparison. The morphology of Ni0.95Se, CoSe, CoSe-Ni0.95Se, and CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene is investigated by SEM images (Figure S4, Supporting Information). The SEM of Ni0.95Se shows a nanoflower-like structure, while nanoparticles can be seen for CoSe. After combining Ni0.95Se with CoSe, the uniformly nanosphere structure consisted with nanosheet arrays is clearly observed. The SEM of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene displays similar morphology to CoSe-Ni0.95Se (Figure S4d, Supporting Information), however the MXene inhibits the agglomeration of CoSe-Ni0.95Se, and uniform distribution of CoSe-Ni0.95Se nanoarrays on thin MXene nanosheets can be seen from the SEM side view (**Figure 2**[a\)](#page-2-0). As shown in TEM images of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene (Figure [2b–k\)](#page-2-0), CoSe-Ni0.95Se nanosheets uniformly cover on the surface of Ti3C2Tx MXene, which shows an agreement with SEM analysis (Figure [2a\)](#page-2-0). The HRTEM images of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene in Figure [2c,d](#page-2-0) and Figure S5 (Supporting Information) display the existence of CoSe-Ni0.95Se heterostructure and the clear phase boundary. The regions where the two phases contact are amplified and tagged by '1-4′ in Figure [2](#page-2-0) and Figure S6 (Supporting Information). Lattice fringes with d-spacings of 0.209 and 0.318 nm are designed to (102) and (100) planes of Ni0.95Se, while lattice fringes of 0.269 and 0.201 nm can be associated with (101) and (102) planes of CoSe. Also, the lattice fringes of 0.201 and 0.280 nm are related to (102) of CoSe and (101) of Ni0.95Se in CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene (Figure S5, Supporting Information). The observed close contact of CoSe and Ni0.95Se phases suggests a significantly improved interfacial charge transfer, and thus improving the diffusion kinetics of ions during the electrocatalytic reactions due to the conductive environment. The HRTEM images and corresponding IFFT images of isolated Ni0.95Se in Figure S7 (Supporting Information) show the lattice fringes of 0.318 and 0.280 nm, which are related to (100) and (101) planes of Ni0.95Se catalyst. While HRTEM images and corresponding IFFT images of isolated CoSe in Figure S8 (Supporting Information) display the lattice fringes of 0.269 and 0.201 nm, which are associated with (101) and (102) planes of CoSe catalyst. The above results verify the successful formation of Ni0.95Se and CoSe. The selected area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern in Figure [2e](#page-2-0) exhibits the diffraction ring of (104), (110), and (102) planes for CoSe phase, and (202), (103), and (101) planes for Ni0.95Se

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** Schematic illustration of the synthesis of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene.

**Figure 2.** a) SEM image; b) TEM image showing nanosheet structure tagged via blue dashed plots; c,d) HRTEM images; (1-4) the corresponding IFFT images of (c-d) images; e) SAED pattern and f–k) HADDF-STEM image and elemental mappings of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene.

**Figure 3.** a) XRD patterns of CoSe, Ni0.95Se, CoSe-Ni0.95Se, CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene; fine scanning XPS spectra of b) Co 2p for CoSe and CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene, c) Ni 2p for Ni0.95Se and CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene, d) Se 3d for CoSe, Ni0.95Se and CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene, e) Ti 2p for CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene and f) C 1s for CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene.

phase. Meanwhile, the high-angle annular dark-field (HAADF-STEM) image and the corresponding EDS elemental mappings of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene (Figure [2f–k\)](#page-2-0) show the uniformly distributed elements of Ti, C, Ni, Co, and Se, indicating the successful electrodeposition of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/ MXene with nanosheet arrays.

XRD pattern is employed to investigate crystalline structure of the electrocatalysts (**Figure 3**a). Co-Se matches well with CoSe (JCPDS, No. 01-077-7572) with the main planes of (101), (102), and (110), while Ni-Se shows an agreement with Ni0.95Se (JCPDS, No. 01-072-2546) with the planes of (002), (102), (110), (103), (201), and (004). As for CoSe-Ni0.95Se, the peaks are slightly negatively shifted compared with CoSe, while positively shifted compared with Ni0.95Se, confirming the formation of the CoSe-Ni0.95Se heterostructure during the electrodeposition. The peaks of XRD pattern for CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene are consistent with CoSe-Ni0.95Se apart from a new peak at 6.3°. The appearance of the new peak is associated with (002) plane of MXene, suggesting the successful synthesis of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene. XPS is employed to study the electronic interaction and valence state of CoSe, Ni0.95Se, and CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene catalysts. The Co 2p high-resolution spectrum of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene in Figure 3b shows the peaks of Co2<sup>+</sup> (781.0 and 796.5 eV), Co3<sup>+</sup> (778.2 and 793.4 eV), and satellite peaks (786.0 and 800.6 eV).[\[44,45\]](#page-10-0) Notably, the Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> peak in CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene catalyst shifts 0.6 eV lower than that in CoSe catalyst, suggesting that the electronic structure of Co is changed owing to the synthesis of CoSe-Ni0.95Se heterostructure and coupling with MXene. The Ni 2p high-resolution profile of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene in Figure 3c reveals the peaks at 856.1 and 873.7 eV, 857.3 and 875.5 eV, and 862.2 and 880.1 eV corresponded to Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> and satellite peaks, respectively.[\[46,47\]](#page-10-0) The Ni2<sup>+</sup> peak in CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene catalyst shifts 0.4 eV higher than that in Ni0.95Se catalyst. The positive shift of Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> peak indicates a decrease of charge density around the Ni atoms.[\[48\]](#page-10-0) The above results indicate the charge transfer between CoSe, Ni0.95Se, and Ti3C2Tx MXene due to the emergence of interfacial electric field and coupling effect. More importantly, the electro-deficient Ni0.95Se can promote the kinetics of hydrazine intermediates, resulting in enhanced HzOR performance. Meanwhile, the electro-rich CoSe can facilitate the H\* and H2O adsorption, improving its HER activity.[\[49\]](#page-10-0) Se 3d highresolution profile of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene in Figure 3d can be fitted with three peaks of Se3d5/2 (54.5 eV), Se3d3/2 (55.5 eV) and SeOx (59.3 eV). It is clear seen that the Ti 2p high-resolution profile of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene in Figure 3e can be deconvoluted into four valences with Ti (IV), Ti (III), Ti (II) and Ti (I), associated with Ti-Ox, Ti-O, Ti-X, and Ti-C, respectively.[\[50,51\]](#page-10-0) The C 1s high-resolution profile of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene in Figure 3f can be ascribed to typical C-Ti bond at 282.1 eV, C─C/C═C at 284.6 eV from Ti3C2Tx, C-O at 285.8 eV, C═O at 287.3 eV and O─C═O at 288.5 eV from the Ti3C2Tx terminations. XPS results suggest that the electronic structure of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene can be tuned by the charge migration between CoSe, Ni0.95Se, and MXene, improving the charge redistribution of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene, and thereby the inherent electroactivity can be enhanced.

16136829, 2024, 43, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202403270 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/12026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2020 acrease the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Comm

<span id="page-4-0"></span>Figure 4. a) HER polarization curves of CoSe, Ni $_{0.95}$ Se, CoSe-Ni $_{0.95}$ Se, CoSe-Ni $_{0.95}$ Se/MXene and Pt/C in 1 M KOH electrolyte with 98% *IR*-correction (The compensation resistance is  $\approx 0.81 \,\Omega$  with the corresponding non-*IR* compensated data shown in Figure S17, Supporting Information); b) related overpotentials; c) Tafel plots; d)  $C_{dl}$  values; e) related Nyquist curves; f) LSV plots of CoSe-Ni $_{0.95}$ Se/MXene before and after 5000 CVs; g) multi-current plot of CoSe-Ni $_{0.95}$ Se/MXene at various current densities and h) chronoamperometry of CoSe-Ni $_{0.95}$ Se/MXene for 7 days at  $-0.25 \,\text{V}$ .

#### 2.2. Electrochemical HER Performance

HER performance of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene is assessed in 1 M KOH by a three-electrode system.  $Ni_{0.95}Se$ , CoSe, CoSe- $Ni_{0.95}Se$ and commercial 20 wt.% Pt/C are used for comparison. (Figure 4a), in which Pt/C shows the lowest potentials at current densities smaller than 200 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. However, superior HER activity can be observed for CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene among higher current densities (>200 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>). Figure 4b shows the overpotentials of Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se, CoSe, CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se, CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene, and Pt/C at various current densities. CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene shows a relatively smaller working potential of -49.6 mV to achieve 10 mA  $cm^{-2}$  compared with  $Ni_{0.95}Se$  (–78.3 mV), CoSe (-72.4 mV), and CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se (-54.7 mV), however larger than Pt/C (-28.7 mV). When current density is reached 200 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene displays the smallest potential of -141.8 mV. Especially at 400 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene shows a potential of -160.8 mV, much smaller than  $Ni_{0.95}$ Se (-286.4 mV), CoSe (-241.9 mV), CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se (-211.6 mV), and Pt/C (-206.2 mV), demonstrating that the HER performance of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene can be enhanced by the formation of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se heterostructure and coupling with MXene. The HER polarization plot of isolated MXene is also conduced as comparison in Figure \$9 (Supporting Information). It is shown that much larger potential of -0.25 V is observed at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for isolated MXene, indicating the significantly low HER activity of isolated MXene. The HER kinetics can be evaluated by the Tafel slopes of the catalysts, reflecting their reaction rate (Figure 4c). Tafel slope of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene is 27.4 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, remarkably smaller in comparison with Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se  $(99.5 \text{ mV dec}^{-1})$ , CoSe  $(59.5 \text{ mV dec}^{-1})$ , CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se (38.0 mV)dec<sup>-1</sup>) and Pt/C (44.8 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>). This indicates that HER process of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene follows the Volmer-Tafel mechanism  $(H_{ad}+H_{ad}\rightarrow H_2)$ , where  $H_{ad}$  marks as H active site) with the rate controlling step of the catalytic-recombination.<sup>[52]</sup> Electrochemical active surface area (ECSA) is elucidated via double-layer capacitance ( $C_{dl}$ ) (Figure S10, Supporting Information). Figure 4d exhibits that CoSe-Ni $_{0.95}$ Se/MXene shows much larger  $C_{\rm dl}$  value of 383.6 mF  $cm^{-2}\ than\ Ni_{0.95}Se$  (283.8 mF  $cm^{-2}),\ CoSe$  (272.5 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>) and CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se (329.3 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), suggesting that

\_\_Smail

16136829, 2024, 43, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202403270 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene has higher ECSA caused by the CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se heterointerface and MXene coupling effect. The specific HER activity of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene is estimated by the LSV plot after normalized by ECSA. As displayed in Figure S11 (Supporting Information), CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene still shows higher current densities at various applied potentials than Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se, CoSe, and CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se, implying its superior intrinsic activity toward HER. EIS spectra of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene in Figure 4e displays a smaller charge transfer resistance ( $R_{ct}$ ) than Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se, CoSe, and CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se, indicating a faster process of charge transportation for CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene. This also confirms the fact that the enhanced electric field induced by CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se heterostructure and MXene coupling effect contributes to the promoted charge transfer capacity of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene.<sup>[53]</sup> The HER durability of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene is estimated by CV plot, multi-current plot and chronoamperometry. Figure 4f shows that the LSV plot of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene still maintains its initial shape after 5000 cycles, suggesting its superior stability. The multi-current plot of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene in Figure 4g displays that the potentials remain constant values under each step in the time interval of 1 h, implying the excellent durability of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene. In addition, the long-term stability of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene in Figure 4h displays steady current densities without obvious decrease during 7 days, still confirming the outstanding HER durability of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene. The morphology, crystalline structure, ECSA, and EIS of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene after HER stability are also performed to reveal the intrinsic reasons of the excellent stability for CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene. The TEM and SEM images of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene in Figure \$12 (Supporting Information) display the uniformly distributed nanosheet arrays. No obvious degradation or agglomeration of the catalyst can be seen. Also, the lattice fringes with the d-spacings of 0.184 and 0.201 nm belong to (110) plane of Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se and (102) plane of CoSe, respectively, suggesting the wellmaintained CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se heterostructure. The TEM-EDS mapping images of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene in Figure S13 (Supporting Information) exhibit the uniformly distributed elements of Ti, C, Ni, Co, and Se, showing that the structural integrity of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se heterostructure is well-preserved and CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se heterostructure is firmly attached on Ti<sub>3</sub>C<sub>2</sub>T<sub>x</sub> MXene surface after HER stability. Figure \$14 (Supporting Information) reveals the XRD pattern of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene after HER stability. It is clear that no remarkable change in the phase structure of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene can be observed after HER stability test compared with the initial sample. This can be evidenced by the nearly unchanged ECSA and EIS data of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene after HER stability (Figures \$15 and \$16, Supporting Information). The HER catalytic activity of CoSe-Ni $_{0.95}$ Se/MXene is also illustrated by comparing with other selenide-based catalysts in Table S1 (Supporting Information). It is clear that the as-prepared CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene surpasses most of recently reported HER electrocatalysts.

### 2.3. Electrochemical HzOR Performance

The HzOR performance of CoSe-Ni $_{0.95}$ Se/MXene is examined in 1.0 M KOH with 0.1 M hydrazine electrolyte in comparison with Ni $_{0.95}$ Se, CoSe, and CoSe-Ni $_{0.95}$ Se. LSV plots show lower poten-

tials of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene at the same potentials (Figure 5a). As displayed in Figure 5b, CoSe-Ni<sub>0.05</sub>Se/MXene shows a lower potential of -19.5 mV to afford 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> than Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se (17.4 mV), CoSe (80.4 mV) and CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se (21.4 mV). Furthermore, CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene still displays much lower potentials of 93.6 and 116.1 mV for HzOR even up to 100 and 400 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively. The HzOR polarization plot of isolated MXene is also examined as comparison in Figure \$18 (Supporting Information). Much larger potential of 0.27 V is observed at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for isolated MXene, suggesting the significantly low HzOR activity of isolated MXene. The HzOR kinetics is also examined by Tafel slopes of the electrocatalysts.<sup>[54]</sup> Tafel slope of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene in Figure 5c is 34.2 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, much smaller compared to Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se (47.1 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), CoSe (148.3 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), and CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se (42.7 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), confirming the remarkably increased HzOR activity of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene. It should be noted that the Tafel slope of CoSe-Ni $_{0.95}$ Se/MXene is much close to that of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se and Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se other than that of CoSe, indicating that the electro-deficient Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se mainly promotes the kinetics of hydrazine intermediates. ECSA of all the electrocatalysts is performed by CV plots with different scan rates (Figure S19, Supporting Information). The calculated  $C_{dl}$  values are shown in Figure 5d. It is displayed that CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene shows a much higher value (657.2 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>) than  $Ni_{0.95}$ Se (330.6 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), CoSe (453.8 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>) and CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se (472.1 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), implying its larger ECSA for HzOR. The specific HzOR activity of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene is determined by LSV plot after averaged by ECSA (Figure S20, Supporting Information). CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene shows significantly higher specific current densities than Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se, CoSe, and CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se at various applied potentials, indicating the improved intrinsic HzOR activity of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene owing to the CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se heterostructure and coupling with MXene. EIS data in Figure 5e displays that a smaller semicircle can be seen for CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene compared with CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se, Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se, and CoSe. This suggests a smaller  $R_{ct}$  value of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene and the resulted faster charge transfer. In addition to elucidate the HzOR activity of the catalysts, the durability of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene toward HzOR is also examined. The LSV plots in Figure 5f show the almost overlapped curves before and after 5000 CVs, suggesting superior HzOR stability of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene. The multi-current plot of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene at various current densities in Figure 5g shows the stable potentials for each step during 19 h test, supporting the excellent durability of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene. Moreover, the stability of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene displays nearly unchanged current densities without noticeable degradation during long-term test of 7 days (Figure 5h), demonstrating its outstanding HzOR durability. The SEM, TEM, XRD, ECSA, and EIS are also performed to gain insight into an in-depth analysis of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene after HzOR stability test. The SEM and TEM images of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene in Figure S21 (Supporting Information) show that CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene still maintains its initial nanosheet structure, and no obvious degradation or agglomeration of the catalyst can be seen. HRTEM image shows the lattice spacings of 0.209 nm related to Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se (102) plane and 0.180 nm associated with CoSe (110) plane (Figure S21d, Supporting Information). The heterointerface of CoSe-Ni $_{0.95}$ Se/MXene well maintains after HzOR stability. The uniformly distributed C, Ti, Ni, Co, and Se in TEM-EDS mapping images (Figure \$22,

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 5.** a) HzOR polarization plots of CoSe, Ni0.95Se, CoSe-Ni0.95Se and CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene in 1 M KOH + 0.1 M hydrazine with 98% *IR*-correction (The compensation resistance is ≈0.75 Ω with the corresponding non-*IR* compensated data shown in Figure S26, Supporting Information); b) related overpotentials; c) Tafel curves; d) *C*dl values; e) Nyquist curves; f) LSV plots of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene before and after 5000 CVs; g) multi-current plot of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene at various current densities and (h) chronoamperometry plot of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene for 7 days at 0.25 V.

Supporting Information) and nearly unchanged peaks in XRD pattern (Figure S23, Supporting Information) demonstrate the respectable preservation of original morphology, structure, and crystallinity. This has been confirmed by the almost unchanged ECSA and EIS data of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene after HzOR stability (Figures S24 and S25, Supporting Information). Thus, the outstanding stability of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene is mainly associated with the well-preserved surface morphology and phase structure, almost unchanged ECSA, and excellent charge transfer ability. Impressively, the HzOR performance of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene remarkably surpasses most of recently reported metal-selenidebased non-noble HzOR catalysts as displayed in Table S2 (Supporting Information).

## **2.4. Theoretical Calculations of HER and HzOR Mechanisms**

DFT calculations are performed to study the underlying mechanisms of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene for HER and HzOR. The optimized models of Ni0.95Se, CoSe, CoSe-Ni0.95Se, and CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene are seen in **Figures [6](#page-7-0)**a and S27 (Supporting Information). The charge transfer of the electrocatalysts is characterized by the charge density difference (Figures [6b;](#page-7-0) S28, Supporting Information). The sites tagged by cyan and yellow represent the depletion and accumulation of the electrons. The combination of Ni0.95Se with CoSe makes the CoSe-Ni0.95Se exhibit the migration of electrons from Ni0.95Se to CoSe, indicating the localized charge redistribution at the interface, which shows in accordance with XPS analysis. It is observed that CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene shows a remarkable increase of the charge density near the CoSe-Ni0.95Se and MXene interface. Electron localization function (ELF) image in Figure [6c](#page-7-0) shows the stable existence of Ni-Se and Co-Se bonds between the interface. The difference of the work function between CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene and CoSe-Ni0.95Se is higher compared with the difference value between CoSe-Ni0.95Se with CoSe or Ni0.95Se, suggesting that MXene can adjust the energy level structure of CoSe-Ni0.95Se (Figure S29, Supporting Information), resulting in the shift of

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 6.** a) Optimized structure model, b) charge density difference and c) ELF of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene; d) total DOS; e) PDOS; f) free energy plots for HER; g) free energy plots for HzOR and h) free energy difference for rate controlling step (RDS) of Ni0.95Se, CoSe, CoSe-Ni0.95Se and CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene.

the electrocatalytic center to the interface and strong coupling effect of CoSe-Ni0.95Se with MXene.[\[55\]](#page-10-0) The nucleophilic CoSe with electron-rich state is in favor of HER due to the optimized absorption energy of H intermediates.[\[56\]](#page-10-0) While the electrophilic Ni0.95Se with electro-deficiency state can promote the N2H4 absorption during HzOR. Furthermore, the appearance of MXene could anchor more active CoSe-Ni0.95Se sites owing to the coupling effect. Figure 6d shows the density of state (DOS) for CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene, CoSe-Ni0.95Se, Ni0.95Se, and CoSe. It is found that the DOS of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene is near the Fermi level (*E*f), indicating the metallic performance in its electrical conductivity. The projected density of state (PDOS) displays the hybridized orbitals of Ni 3d, Co 3d, and Ti 3d, resulting in total DOS of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene around *E*<sup>f</sup> (Figure 6e). The hybridization of these 3d-orbitals contributes to stronger interfacial electric field within Ni0.95Se, CoSe, and MXene, which can shorten the migration path of the electrons by providing more charge transfer channels.[\[57\]](#page-11-0) The binding strength of the intermediates during the catalytical reactions is studied by the d-band center (ɛd) and also exhibited in Figure 6e. The values of Co d state (ɛd-Ni) and Ni d state (ɛd-Co) for CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene are −1.513 and −1.324 eV, respectively, which shows up-shift of ɛd-Ni and downshift of ɛd-Co compared with CoSe-Ni0.95Se. Also, these are more positive than Ni0.95Se and negative than CoSe. The closer value of ɛ<sup>d</sup> to Fermi level demonstrates the stronger absorption with the intermediates.[\[58\]](#page-11-0) HER process can be mainly influenced by the adsorption strength. The weak absorption strength inhibits the formation of \*H, while too strong adsorption hinders the desorption of H2. Thus, a proper balance of the binding strength is critical.[\[20\]](#page-10-0) The moderate ɛ<sup>d</sup> values for CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene suggest an optimized adsorption of hydrogen and hydrazine intermediates, and thus much enhanced electrocatalytic activities are observed afterward. The charge density distributions of \*H and \*N2H4 absorbed on active sites imply that the adsorption of \*H and \*N2H4 could be remarkably enhanced due to the more electron transfers from CoSe to \*H, and from \*N2H4 to N0.95Se, respectively (Figures S30 and S31, Supporting Information). The adsorption energy of \*N2H4 on various electrocatalysts displays the moderate value of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene than CoSe-Ni0.95Se, CoSe, and Ni0.95Se (Figure S32, Supporting Information).

16138289,2024. 43, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/doi/10/02/smll.20243270 by University of Science, Wiley Online Library on [7]01/12/26]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2020 and the Library of Science, Wiley Online Library on [7]01/12/26]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library of rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensee (https://onlinelibrary.wiely.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library on India.

<span id="page-8-0"></span>Figure 7. a) Schematic illustration of OHzS and OWS system employing CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene for both electrodes; b) OHzS and OWS performance of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene || CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene couple in 1 M KOH with and without 0.1 M hydrazine with 98% *IR*-correction (The compensation resistance is  $\approx$  0.75  $\Omega$  with the corresponding non-IR compensated data shown in Figure S35, Supporting Information); c) related voltages; d,e) measured and theoretical  $H_2$  and  $N_2$  products released from CoSe- $Ni_{0.95}$ Se/MXene at 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> in 1 M KOH with 0.1 M hydrazine; f) j-t plot at 0.42 V for 48 h; g) schematic illustration of the mechanisms of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene for HzOR and HER.

The electrochemical HER activity of the catalysts is mainly depending on Gibbs free energy ( $\Delta G_{H}^{\phantom{H}*})$  of the adsorption and desorption of \*H. The value of  $\Delta G_H$  close to zero indicates that the catalyst facilitates the HER process.<sup>[59]</sup> Figure 6f exhibits the free energy diagrams of fabricated catalysts toward HER. CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene shows a  $\Delta G_H^*$  of -0.08 eV, remarkably closer to theoretical value of 0 eV than CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se (0.13 eV), Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se (0.51 eV) and CoSe (0.18 eV), demonstrating a favorable adsorption or desorption of \*H for CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene. Notably, the  $\Delta G_H^{\ \ *}$  of CoSe is much closer to zero compared with Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se, indicating that CoSe is more active than Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se for HER. Also, CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se displays a smaller value of  $\Delta G_H^*$  than CoSe. This suggests that the heterostructure combining Ni<sub>0.05</sub>Se with CoSe can enhance the HER activity of CoSe. Figure 6g displays the step by step of HzOR process on CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene, CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se, Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se, and CoSe, involving the formation and evolution of \*N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub>, \*N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>3</sub>, \*N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>2</sub>, \*N<sub>2</sub>H and \*N<sub>2</sub>. The ratedetermining step (RDS) of these electrocatalysts is all the same, that is, the step of  ${}^*N_2H_4 \rightarrow {}^*N_2H_3$ . The energy barrier of the RDS for CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene is 0.16 eV, much smaller in comparison to CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se (0.32 eV), Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se (0.84 eV) and CoSe (1.10 eV), demonstrating a much more thermodynamically favorable process of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene catalyst for HzOR (Figure 6h). Unlike the HER process, Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se shows a smaller value for RDS than CoSe, especially for CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se, implying that Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se is more active than CoSe for HzOR. Undoubtedly, the theoretical calculations clearly exhibit that the formation of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se heterostructure and MXene coupling effect could optimize the charge states of Ni 3d and Co 3d, contributing to the appropriate adsorption of the intermediates, thereby the thermodynamic barriers can be decrease for both \*H absorption toward HER and hydrazine dehydrogenation toward HzOR.

### 2.5. Electrochemical OHzS Performance

A two-electrode system employing CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene as anode and cathode is assembled to assess the OHzS, as illustrated in Figure 7a. The OWS is employed for comparison. Figure 7b shows the LSV plots of CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene for OHzS and OWS. The resulted cell voltages are exhibited in Figure 7c. It is displayed that CoSe-Ni<sub>0.95</sub>Se/MXene system needs a cell

voltage of 0.14 and 0.35 V at 10 and 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for OHzS, much smaller than that of 1.54 and 1.77 V for OWS, respectively. Impressively, the cell voltage of OHzS is 1.40 V and 1.42 V lower than that of OWS, indicating its excellent performance for OHzS. It should be noted that CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene shows an outstanding bifunctional electrocatalytic activity for OHzS, suppressing most of the recently reported non-precious metal samples (Table S3, Supporting Information). Moreover, Faradaic efficiency of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene for HER and HzOR is accessed. As displayed in Figure [7d,e,](#page-8-0) the tested H2 and N2 productions match well with the theoretical plots, demonstrating the nearly 100% Faradaic efficiency of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene toward both HER and HzOR, which also confirms the high HER and HzOR selectivity of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene in the bifunctional application. The durability of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene is determined by *jt* plot and multi-step current method. The *j-t* plot in Figure [7f](#page-8-0) exhibits that no obvious elevation of the current density can be seen in 48 h test. As comparison, the *j-t* plot of CoSe-Ni0.95Se ǀǀ CoSe-Ni0.95Se couple in Figure S33 (Supporting Information) shows significant decrease of the current density, indicating that the coupling effect with MXene can improve the stability of CoSe-Ni0.95Se. As confirmed in Figure S34 (Supporting Information), the stable voltages can be observed for each step during 1 h test until the current density up to 500 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, suggesting the outstanding stability of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene for OHzS. The reason for superior bifunctional performance of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene is shown in Figure [7g.](#page-8-0) The energy level structure and d-band center of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene can be finely adjusted though the Ni and Co coordination structure induced by its heterostructure and MXene coupling effect, leading to the enhanced interfacial electric field, especially near MXene surface, which can facilitate the charge transfer from Ni0.95Se to CoSe. Combining with the MXene nature that can anchor more active sites, such redistribution of the charge promotes the appearance of abundant nucleophilic CoSe and electrophilic Ni0.95Se sites. The electro-rich CoSe tends to absorb \*H, whereas hydrazine dehydrogenation intermediates prefer to adsorb on electro-deficiency Ni0.95Se, moderating the free energy of adsorbed \*H during HER and RDS ( \*N2H4→\*N2H3) during HzOR, and thereby much promoted kinetics and further improved catalytic performance of HER and HzOR can be observed.

# **3. Conclusion**

In summary, we have coupled CoSe and Ni0.95Se into heterogeneous nanosheet arrays and then adopted on Ti3C2Tx MXene (named as CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene), in which the coordination structure of Ni and Co is tailored via the heterostructure with MXene coupling effect, and the energy level structure is adjusted to improve the interfacial electric field, which can enhance the charge transfer from Ni0.95Se to CoSe. DFT calculations demonstrate that the optimized electronic states of Ni 3d and Co 3d after coupling heterogeneous CoSe-Ni0.95Se with MXene result in the abundant nucleophilic CoSe with electro-rich state which optimizes the adsorption of \*H, and rich electrophilic Ni0.95Se with electro-deficient state which is in favor of the adsorption and desorption of the hydrazine intermediates. As a result, the small potentials of −49.6 and −160.8 mV at 10 and 400 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for HER, as well as small potentials of 19.5 and 116.1 mV at 10 and 400 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for HzOR together with long-term durability of 7 days at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> can be achieved. Specially, when serving as bifunctional catalyst toward OHzS, the CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene shows a low cell volage of 0.35 V at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> with outstanding long-term stability, indicating its potential application for OHzS. This work supplies a novel strategy to produce bifunctional catalysts for energy-saving hydrogen generation by strengthening nucleo/electrophilic bimetallic selenide heterostructure after coupling with MXene and gain insight into the relationship of electrocatalytic performance with the electronic structure.

# **4. Experimental Section**

*Synthesis Processes*: Typically, 1 g Ti3AlC2 power (SEM seen in Figure S36, Supporting Information) was added into the solution with LiF powder and 9 m HCl which were magnetically stirred at 35 °C for 24 h. After the reaction, the solution was washed by deionized water until pH achieved 6, then the solution was centrifuged for 1 h to collect the supernatant of the upper layer. The supernatant was freeze-dried overnight to obtain fine Ti3C2Tx MXene powder. The CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene composite was fabricated on NF by the electrodeposition method. Ni foam (NF) was ultrasonicated by hydrochloric acid, acetone, and deionized water to eliminate the surface oxides. Electrodeposition was carried out in a three-electrode cell with the electrolyte of 30 mM NiCl2·6H2O, 150 mM CoCl2·6H2O, 50 mM SeO2, 85 mM LiCl, 50 mM NH4Cl and 30 mg Ti3C2Tx MXene. Cyclic voltammetry (CV) was used to electrodeposit CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene in the above solution in the range of −0.85–0.15 V at 5 mV s−<sup>1</sup> for 10 cycles. The Pt sheet (1 cm2) and SCE were employed as auxiliary and reference electrodes, respectively. CoSe, Ni0.95Se, and CoSe-Ni0.95Se were obtained from the solution without NiCl2·6H2O and MXene, CoCl2·6H2O and MXene, and MXene, respectively, for comparison. The loading amount of CoSe-Ni0.95Se/MXene on NF was ≈0.30 mg cm<sup>−</sup>2.

*Material Characterization*: The crystalline structure of the electrocatalysts was examined by X-ray diffraction (XRD, Rigaku Smartlab diffractometer, Japan). The morphology of the catalysts was evaluated by scanning electron microscope (SEM, SU8010, Hitachi, Japan) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM, JEM-2100F, Japan). X-ray photoelectron spectra (XPS) were elucidated by a VG Scientific ESCALab250i-XL instrument.

The detailed electrochemical measurements and theoretical calculations can be shown in the supporting information.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# **Acknowledgements**

The authors would like to thank Jianlong Group for the financial support (2023012600001). Special thanks to the instrumental analysis from the Analytical and Testing Centre, Northeastern University. The authors acknowledge the National Natural Science Foundation of China (51904060). The numerical calculations in this paper have been done on Hefei Advanced Computing Center.

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

# <span id="page-10-0"></span>**Keywords**

heterointerface, hydrazine oxidation, hydrogen evolution, MXene, transition metal selenide

> Received: April 23, 2024 Revised: June 11, 2024 Published online: June 22, 2024

- [1] Y. Huang, D. Li, S. Feng, Y. Jia, S. Guo, X. Wu, M. Chen, W. Shi, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202212234.
- [2] T. Xu, D. Jiao, M. Liu, L. Zhang, X. Fan, L. Zheng, W. Zheng, X. Cui, *Adv. Sci.* **2023**, *10*, 2205605.
- [3] Y. Tang, C. Yang, X. Xu, Y. Kang, J. Henzie, W. Que, Y. Yamauchi, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2103867.
- [4] Y. Lu, H. Zhang, Y. Wang, X. Zhu, W. Xiao, H. Xu, G. Li, Y. Li, D. Fan, H. Zeng, Z. Chen, X. Yang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2215061.
- [5] L. Zhou, T. Yang, Z. Fang, J. Zhou, Y. Zheng, C. Guo, L. Zhu, E. Wang, X. Hou, K. C. Chou, Z. L. Wang, *Nano Energy* **2022**, *104*, 107876.
- [6] B. Wang, Q. Liu, A. Yuan, Q. Shi, L. Jiang, W. Yang, T. Yang, X. Hou, *J. Mate. Sci. Technol.* **2024**, *182*, 1.
- [7] K. Wu, C. Cao, K. Li, C. Lyu, J. Cheng, H. Li, P. Hu, J. Wu, W. M. Lau, X. Zhu, P. Qian, J. Zheng, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *452*, 139527.
- [8] L. Yang, T. Yang, E. Wang, X. Yu, K. Wang, Z. Du, S. Cao, K. C. Chou, X. Hou, *J. Mate. Sci. Technol.* **2023**, *159*, 33.
- [9] G. Meng, Z. Chang, L. Zhu, C. Chen, Y. Chen, H. Tian, W. Luo, W. Sun, X. Cui, J. Shi, *Nano-Micro Lett.* **2023**, *15*, 212.
- [10] K. Li, Y. Tong, J. F. He, X. Y. Liu, P. Chen, *Mater. Horiz.* **2023**, *10*, 5277.
- [11] Y. Tong, P. Chen, L. Chen, X. Cui, *ChenSusChem* **2021**, *14*, 2576.
- [12] X. Ren, Y. Tong, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energ.* **2024**, *49*, 489.
- [13] T. Shi, B. Gao, H. Meng, Y. Fu, D. Kong, P. Ren, H. Fu, Z. Feng, *Green Chem.* **2024**, *26*, 4209.
- [14] K. Li, D. Feng, Y. Tong, *ChemSusChem* **2022**, *15*, 202200590.
- [15] Z. Qian, Y. Chen, Z. Tang, Z. Liu, X. Wang, Y. Tian, W. Gao, *Nano-Micro Lett.* **2019**, *11*, 28.
- [16] X. Peng, Y. Yan, X. Jin, C. Huang, W. Jin, B. Gao, P. K. Chu, *Nano Energy* **2020**, *78*, 105234.
- [17] F. O. Boakye, M. G. Sendeku, A. Kumar, S. Ajmal, K. A. Owusu, K. B. Ibrahim, M. Tabish, F. uz Zaman, M. A. Mushtaq, K. M. Alotaibi, M. Z. Ansari, G. Yasin, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ. Energy* **2024**, *352*, 124013.
- [18] R. Deng, H. Yao, Y. Wang, C. Wang, S. Guo, Y. Li, S. Ma, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2024**, *488*, 150996.
- [19] K. Li, X. Cen, J. F. He, Y. Tong, *Chem. Commun.* **2023**, *59*, 5575.
- [20] L. Tan, J. Yu, H. Wang, H. Gao, X. Liu, L. Wang, X. She, T. Zhan, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ.* **2022**, *303*, 120915.
- [21] W. Liu, T. Shi, Z. Feng, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2023**, *630*, 888.
- [22] B. R. Wygant, B. A. Washington, C. N. Wright, G. A. Goenaga, T. A. Zawodzinski, T. N. Lambert, *ACS Catal.* **2023**, *13*, 9245.
- [23] X. Zhao, X. Li, Y. Yan, Y. Xing, S. Lu, L. Zhao, S. Zhou, Z. Peng, J. Zeng, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ.* **2018**, *236*, 569.
- [24] Z. Feng, E. Wang, S. Huang, J. Liu, *Nanoscale* **2020**, *12*, 4426.
- [25] J. Wang, M. Zhang, G. Yang, W. Song, W. Zhong, X. Wang, M. Wang, T. Sun, Y. Tang, *Adv. Func. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2101532.
- [26] G. Zhou, G. Liu, X. Liu, Q. Yu, H. Mao, Z. Xiao, L. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *32*, 2107608.
- [27] S. Zhao, Y. Yang, Z. Tang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202110186.
- [28] K. Wu, C. Lyu, J. Cheng, Z. Guo, H. Li, X. Zhu, W. M. Lau, J. Zheng, *Small* **2023**, *20*, 2304390.

- [29] K. Wu, C. Wang, X. Lang, J. Cheng, H. Wu, C. Lyu, W. M. Lau, Z. Liang, X. Zhu, J. Zheng, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2024**, *654*, 1040.
- [30] H. M. Yang, H. Y. Wang, M. L. Sun, Z. Y. Yuan, *Chem. Eng. Lett.* **2023**, *475*, 146134.
- [31] Z. Cai, D. Zhao, X. Fan, L. Zhang, J. Liang, Z. Li, J. Li, Y. Luo, D. Zheng, Y. Wang, T. Li, H. Yan, B. Ying, S. Sun, A. A. Alshehri, H. Yan, J. Xu, Q. Kong, X. Sun, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2300620.
- [32] X. Fan, D. Zhao, Z. Deng, L. Zhang, J. Li, Z. Li, S. Sun, Y. Luo, D. Zheng, Y. Wang, B. Ying, J. Zhang, A. A. Alshehri, Y. Lin, C. Tang, X. Sun, Y. Zheng, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2208036.
- [33] L. Zhai, X. She, L. Zhuang, Y. Li, R. Ding, X. Guo, Y. Zhang, Y. Zhu, K. Xu, H. J. Fan, S. P. Lau, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202116057.
- [34] K. Guo, Y. Wang, S. Yang, J. Huang, Z. Zou, H. Pan, P. S. Shinde, S. Pan, J. Huang, C. Xu, *Sci. Bull.* **2021**, *66*, 52.
- [35] Q. Zhang, F. Luo, X. Long, X. Yu, K. Qu, Z. Yang, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ.* **2021**, *298*, 120511.
- [36] W. Chen, C. Xie, Y. Wang, Y. Zou, C. L. Dong, Y. C. Huang, Z. Xiao, Z. Wei, S. Du, C. Chen, B. Zhou, J. Ma, S. Wang, *Chem* **2020**, *6*, 2974.
- [37] W. Wang, Y. Wang, R. Yang, Q. Wen, Y. Liu, Z. Jiang, H. Li, T. Zhai, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2020**, *59*, 16974.
- [38] X. Chen, J. Wang, Y. Chai, Z. Zhang, Y. Zhu, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2007479.
- [39] L. Hu, M. Li, X. Wei, H. Wang, Y. Wu, J. Wen, W. Gu, C. Zhu, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2020**, *398*, 125605.
- [40] Z. Lv, W. Ma, M. Wang, J. Dang, K. Jian, D. Liu, D. Huang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *23*, 2102576.
- [41] Y. Chen, G. Meng, T. Yang, C. Chen, Z. Chang, F. Kong, H. Tian, X. Cui, X. Hou, J. Shi, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *450*, 138157.
- [42] D. Vikraman, S. Hussain, L. Hailiang, K. Karuppasamy, P. Sivakumar, P. Santhoshkumar, J. Jung, H. S. Kim, *Inorg. Chem. Front.* **2022**, *9*, 5903.
- [43] J. Zhang, N. Kong, S. Uzun, A. Levitt, S. Seyedin, P. A. Lynch, S. Qin, M. Han, W. Yang, J. Liu, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2001093.
- [44] X. Zhang, F. Yan, X. Ma, C. Zhu, Y. Wang, Y. Xie, S. L. Chou, Y. Huang, Y. Chen, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2021**, *11*, 2102141.
- [45] Z. Lv, J. Fei, Y. You, X. Lv, Q. Li, J. Dang, *J. Mater. Sci. Technol.* **2023**, *147*, 207.
- [46] D. N. Nguyen, T. K. C. Phu, J. Kim, W. T. Hong, J. S. Kim, S. H. Roh, H. S. Park, C. H. Chung, W. S. Choe, H. Shin, J. Y. Lee, J. K. Kim, *Small* **2022**, *18*, 2204797.
- [47] R. Andaveh, A. S. Rouhaghdam, J. Ai, M. Maleki, K. Wang, A. Seif, G. B. Darband, J. Li, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ.* **2023**, *325*, 122355.
- [48] X. Lv, S. Wan, T. Mou, X. Han, Y. Zhang, Z. Wang, X. Tao, *Adv. Func. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2205161.
- [49] A. Li, L. Zhang, F. Wang, L. Zhang, L. Li, H. Chen, Z. Wei, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ.* **2022**, *310*, 121353.
- [50] C. E. Shuck, A. Sarycheva, M. Anayee, A. Levitt, Y. Zhu, S. Uzun, V. Balitskiy, V. Zahorodna, O. Gogotsi, Y. Gogotsi, *Adv. Eng. Mater.* **2020**, *22*, 1901241.
- [51] Y. Zhang, H. Jiang, Y. Lin, H. Liu, Q. He, C. Wu, T. Duan, L. Song, *Adv. Mater. Interfaces* **2018**, *5*, 1800392.
- [52] V. M. Nikolic, S. L. Maslovara, G. S. Tasic, T. P. Brdaric, P. Z. Lausevic, B. B. Radak, M. P. M. Kaninski, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ.* **2015**, *179*, 88.
- [53] S. Zhang, C. Tan, R. Yan, X. Zou, F.-L. Hu, Y. Mi, C. Yan, S. Zhao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202302795.
- [54] L. Zhu, J. Huang, G. Meng, T. Wu, C. Chen, H. Tian, Y. Chen, F. Kong, Z. Chang, X. Cui, J. Shi, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 1997.
- [55] Y. Tan, Y. Zhu, X. Cao, Y. Liu, J. Li, Z. Chen, J. Hu, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 11821.

<span id="page-11-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

- [56] X. Jiang, H. Jang, S. Liu, Z. Li, M. G. Kim, C. Li, Q. Qin, X. Liu, J. Cho, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 4110.
- [57] S. Zhang, C. Zhang, X. Zheng, G. Su, H. Wang, M. Huang, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ.* **2023**, *324*, 122207.
- [58] M. Chen, N. Kitiphatpiboon, C. Feng, Q. Zhao, A. Abudula, Y. Ma, K. Yan, G. Guan, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ.* **2023**, *330*, 122577.
- [59] W. Liu, X. Wang, J. Qu, X. Liu, Z. Zhang, Y. Guo, H. Yin, D. Wang, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ.* **2022**, *307*, 121201.