---
source: Feng 等 - 2024 - Constructing Fully‐Active and Ultra‐Active Sites in High‐Entropy Alloy Nanoclusters for Hydrazine Ox.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 6.463s
generated: 2026-01-10T07:18:11.074932Z
---

# **Constructing Fully-Active and Ultra-Active Sites in High-Entropy Alloy Nanoclusters for Hydrazine Oxidation-Assisted Electrolytic Hydrogen Production**

*Guang Feng, Yue Pan, Dong Su, and Dingguo Xia\**

**The development of sufficiently high-efficiency systems and effective catalysts for electrocatalytic hydrogen production is of great significance but challenging. Here, high-entropy alloy nanoclusters (HEANCs) with full-active sites and super-active sites are innovatively constructed for hydrazine oxidation-assisted electrolytic hydrogen production. The HEANCs show an average size of only seven atomic layers (1.48 nm). As the catalysts for both hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and hydrazine oxidation reaction, the HEANC/C exhibits the best-level performance among reported electrocatalysts. Especially, the HEANC/C achieves an ultrahigh mass activity of 12.85 A mg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> noble metals at −0.07 V and overpotential of only 9.5 mV for 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for alkaline HER. Further, with HEANC/C as both anode and cathode catalysts, an overall hydrazine oxidation-assisted splitting (OHzS) electrolyzer shows a record mass activity of 250.2 mA mg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> catalysts at 0.1 V and only requires working voltages of 0.025 and 0.181 V to reach 10 and 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, respectively, outperforming those of overall water-splitting system and other reported chemicals-assisted hydrogen production systems. Active site libraries including 72 sites on HEANC surface are originally constructed by theoretical calculations, revealing that all sites on HEANC surface are effective active sites for OHzS; especially some are super-active sites, endowing the best-level performance of HEANC/C.**

**1. Introduction**

Hydrogen, as a vital feedstock with an ultrahigh energy density (142.35 MJ kg<sup>−</sup>1) and zero-pollution emission, is generally deemed as one of the most significant energy carriers for accomplishing sustainable energy development and carbon-neutral economics.[\[1–3\]](#page-9-0) Although electrochemical overall water splitting (OWS) is currently the leading technology for yielding high-purity hydrogen (99.995%),[\[2,4\]](#page-9-0) its large-scale implementation is hindered by high cell voltages (*>*1.5 V)[\[5\]](#page-9-0) and electricity costs (≥US\$4.15 kg<sup>−</sup>1),[\[6\]](#page-9-0) which fundamentally stem from the sluggish kinetics of oxygen evolution reaction (OER; 1.23 V vs RHE) on the anode.[\[7,8\]](#page-9-0) This bottleneck is difficult to break even if sufficiently efficient catalysts are employed.[\[9\]](#page-9-0) Hence, it is quite urgent to explore more effective electrolysis systems with higher efficiency for hydrogen production. Nowadays, various attempts on replacing OER in OWS system with thermodynamically more favorable anodic reactions have been demonstrated as the pathbreaking strategies for hydrogen production.[\[10–23\]](#page-9-0) For instance, the electrolysis systems adopting hydrazine,[\[10–13\]](#page-9-0) urea,[\[14\]](#page-9-0) ethanol,[\[15,16\]](#page-10-0) glycerol,[\[17,18\]](#page-10-0) sulfion,[\[19,20\]](#page-10-0) glucose,[\[21\]](#page-10-0) or 5-hydroxymethyl furfural[\[22,23\]](#page-10-0) electrooxidation as the anodic reaction can exhibit

relatively lower theoretical working voltages and higher cell energy efficiencies than OWS system. Among these alternative reactions, hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR) is highly promising for practical applications. Especially, owing to the ultralow

G. Feng, D. Xia

Beijing Key Laboratory of Theory and Technology for Advanced Batteries Materials

School of Materials Science and Engineering

Peking University Beijing 100871, P. R. China E-mail: [dgxia@pku.edu.cn](mailto:dgxia@pku.edu.cn)

G. Feng

Beijing Key Laboratory for Chemical Power Source and Green Catalysis School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering

Beijing Institute of Technology Beijing 100081, P. R. China

Y. Pan, D. Su

Beijing National Laboratory for Condensed Matter Physics Institute of Physics

Chinese Academy of Sciences Beijing 100190, P. R. China D. Xia Institute of Carbon Neutrality Peking University

Beijing 100871, P. R. China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202309715>

**DOI: 10.1002/adma.202309715**

**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.advmat.de](http://www.advmat.de)**

15214095, 2024, 13, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202309715 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

theoretical potential of HzOR (−0.33 V vs RHE) and the safe byproduct (N2), overall hydrazine oxidation-assisted splitting (OHzS) system can significantly save more than 50% electricity and effectively avoid the explosive H2/O2 byproduct compared to OWS system.[\[24–26\]](#page-10-0) However, the research on OHzS is still in its infancy and major challenges remain. In particular, because of lacking sufficiently effective catalysts for catalyzing cathodic hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and anodic HzOR simultaneously, the current OHzS systems suffer from poor specific activity, mass activity, and stability, hindering the practical application of current OHzS system for hydrogen production. Thus, the design of sufficiently efficient catalysts with ultrahigh intrinsic activity and stability for both HER and HzOR in OHzS systems is highly meaningful.

High-entropy alloys (HEAs) have become a research hotspot in energy catalysis field.[\[27–30\]](#page-10-0) Owing to the tunable electronic structure,[\[31\]](#page-10-0) optimizable d-band center,[\[29\]](#page-10-0) and high configurational entropy,[\[32\]](#page-10-0) HEAs have the potential to become the most prominent catalysts with the sufficiently efficient activity and stability for practical applications. Nevertheless, the catalytic performance of the HEAs has not been sufficiently explored, resulting in the current HEA catalysts not exhibiting more obvious advantages than other types of catalysts, such as single-atom catalysts,[\[33,34\]](#page-10-0) 2D material catalysts,[\[35,36\]](#page-10-0) and metal– organic framework catalysts.[\[37\]](#page-10-0) Moreover, more unique and extraordinary catalytic properties and mechanisms of HEAs still need to be further unveiled. Therefore, an ingenious design is urgently needed to support HEAs as the best-level catalysts, pushing the research of HEA catalysts to a higher level and accelerating the research and applications of HEAs in energy catalysis fields, especially for hydrogen production.

Here, we originally design extremely small HEA nanoparticles with an average size of only seven atomic layers, which are defined as HEA nanoclusters (HEANCs). Atomic-resolution EDS mapping technology precisely demonstrates the single-phase solid-solution structure of HEANCs. The HEANC/C achieves the best-level performance among reported electrocatalysts for both HER and HzOR. Moreover, when adopting HEANC/C as both anode and cathode catalysts for an overall hydrazine-assisted splitting (OHzS) electrolyzer, it requires ultralow working voltages of 0.025 and 0.181 V to reach 10 and 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, respectively, prominently exceeding those of overall water-splitting system and other reported chemicals-assisted hydrogen production systems. The two-electrode OHzS system also displays a record mass activity of 250.2 mA mg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> catalysts at 0.1 V and an outstanding stability for 150 h. Theoretical calculations reveal that all sites on HEANC surface are effectively active sites for OHzS, especially some are super-active sites, endowing the best-level performance of HEANC/C. This work strongly supports HEANCs as the sufficiently effective electrocatalysts for energy catalysis applications, especially for electrocatalytic hydrogen production.

# **2. Results and Discussion**

#### **2.1. Synthesis and Characterization of HEANCs**

To synthesize homogeneous HEAs without phase separation, extremely high temperatures and harsh synthesis conditions are usually adopted, which result in bulk structures or severe particle agglomeration. Consequently, the synthesis of ultrasmall HEA nanoclusters (*<*1.5 nm) remains a great challenge, and the HEA nanoclusters (HEANCs) catalysts are rarely reported yet. In this study, we successfully prepared ultrasmall NiCo-MoPtRu HEANCs via a wet-chemical co-reduction method and subsequent annealing. The carbon support was added to the mixed solution before co-reducing the five metal salts, which enabled in situ HEANC growth and effectively provided tight bonding between the HEANCs and carbon support; thus, restricting HEANC migration and agglomeration during annealing. **Figure 1**[a,b](#page-2-0) displays the high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) images of the NiCoMoPtRu HEANCs. The HEANCs are uniformly distributed on the carbon supports, with an average size of 1.48 nm (seven atomic layers) (Figure [1c\)](#page-2-0). No additional diffraction peaks appear in the powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern of HEANC/C compared with that of the carbon support (Figure S1, Supporting Information), further confirming the ultrasmall crystal structure of the HEANCs.[\[38\]](#page-10-0) Figure S2, Supporting Information shows randomly selected crystal lattice images of the HEANCs. The lattice spacing of 2.12 Å corresponds to the (111) plane of HEANCs, consistent with the XRD results for NiCoMoPtRu HEA nanoparticles (HEANP/C) (Figure S3, Supporting Information), indicating that the HEANCs possess (111) basal planes. The EDS spectrum of a single HEANC reveals a Pt:Ru:Ni:Co:Mo molar ratio of 23.0:15.0:29.2:25.8:6.9 (Figure [1d\)](#page-2-0), which is crudely in agreement with the results for several HEANCs (Figure S4, Supporting Information) and overall sample analysis by inductively coupled plasma (ICP) (Table S1, Supporting Information). EDS mapping and line scanning data of a single HEANC (Figure [1e](#page-2-0) and Figure S5, Supporting Information) demonstrate that the five elements are homogeneously dispersed without element segregation.

Aberration-corrected HAADF-STEM technique and X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) measurements are performed to demystify the atomic structure, coordinational structure, and electronic structure of HEANCs. A representative atomicresolution image (Figure S6, Supporting Information) indicates that the HEANCs are crystalline and mainly covered by (111) and (200) crystal planes. In order to precisely clarify the distribution of five atoms in HEANCs, atomic-resolution EDS mapping technology is adopted. As displayed in Figure [1f,](#page-2-0) all Ni/Co/Mo/Pt/Ru atoms homogeneously mix within the bright sublattices, thereby confirming a single-phase solid-solution structure of HEANCs. The extended XAFS (EXAFS) spectra of five elements are further investigated to determine the entire co-ordinational structure of HEANCs and eliminate the existence of impurities. As shown in Figure S7, Supporting Information, compared with the corresponding oxide samples, all five elements in HEANCs lack the Me─O (Me: Ni, Co, Mo, Pt, and Ru) shells (≈1.5 Å), demonstrating that the HEANCs are not oxidized. In addition, the distance of all the first Me─Me shells in HEANCs is shorter than that of the corresponding metal foils, indicating that all five elements in the HEANCs exist as alloys, not as pure metals. In particular, the EXAFS spectra of the first shell of five elements in HEANCs exhibit similar distances and amplitudes (Figure [1g\)](#page-2-0), suggesting that these elements have the similar local environments and are randomly mixed in the HEANCs. The larger atomic radii of Pt, Ru, and Mo result in these elements having larger distances than Ni and Co. The above EXAFS results prove that the

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** Morphology, composition, and structure of NiCoMoPtRu high-entropy alloy nanoclusters (HEANCs). a) Representative HAADF-STEM image of HEANCs. b) An enlarged HAADF-STEM image of HEANCs (inset shows a single HEANC with only seven atomic layers). c) The size distributions of HEANCs. d) EDS spectrum of a single HEANC circled in pink in (b). e) EDS elemental mapping of a single HEANC. f) Atomic-resolution EDS maps of an enlarged region of a HEANC. g) Extended XAFS spectra for five elements in HEANC/C. XANES spectra for the h) Pt L3-edge, i) Ru K-edge, j) Co K-edge, k) Mo K-edge, and l) Ni K-edge in HEANC/C.

five elements in HEANCs form an entire solid-solution structure without impurities. The electronic structure of HEANCs is studied using X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) spectra (Figure 1h,l). All the white lines (WLs) of Ni/Co/Mo/Pt/Ru elements in HEANCs are close to the corresponding metal foils but far away from the oxide samples, confirming that these elements in HEANCs are all in metallic states. Moreover, compared with the corresponding metal foils, the WL intensity of the Pt L3-edge decreases (Figure 1h) and the Ru K-edge slightly shifts to lower energy (Figure 1i), respectively, suggesting an electronrich state for Pt and Ru atoms in HEANCs. In contrast, both the Ni and Co K-edges in HEANCs slightly shift to higher energies than the corresponding metal foils. This is because, owing to their low electronegativity, Ni/Co atoms donate electron density to Pt/Ru atoms in the HEANCs. These results demonstrate the electron redistribution and a fine-tuning electronic structure of HEANCs.

#### **2.2. Electrochemical Performance of HEANC/C for HER and HzOR**

The electrocatalytic performance of HEANC/C for HER is evaluated using a typical three-electrode setup in 1.0 m KOH solution at room temperature. Figures S8 and S9, Supporting Information show the morphologies and HER activities of NiCoMoPtRu/C annealed at different temperature, respectively. It can be seen that the NiCoMoPtRu/C annealed at 400 °C (HEANC/C) has the optimal size and best performance for HER. To further evaluate the activity of HEANC/C, commercial Pt/C catalyst, Ketjen-black carbon (C), and NiCoMoPtRu/C annealed at 800 °C (HEANP/C) are also investigated under the same conditions. **Figure [2](#page-3-0)**a presents the HER polarization curves normalized by geometric area. It can be seen that the HEANC/C exhibits the highest HER specific activities in the investigated potential window. As shown in Figure [2b,](#page-3-0) HEANC/C exhibits the lowest Tafel slope (29.8 mV

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** Electrocatalytic performance of HEANC/C for HER in 1 m KOH solution. a) Polarization curves of HEANC/C, HEANP/C, C, and commercial Pt/C catalyst for HER, normalized by geometric area. b) Tafel plots of HEANC/C, HEANP/C, and commercial Pt/C catalyst acquired from (a). c) HER polarization curves of HEANC/C, HEANP/C, C, and commercial Pt/C catalyst, normalized by noble-metal loading. d) Nyquist plots of HEANC/C and commercial Pt/C catalyst at −0.08 V (vs RHE). e) Stability test of HEANC/C through potential cycling 10 000 and 20 000 cycles. f) Stability test of commercial Pt/C catalyst through potential cycling 10 000 cycles. g) Quantitative comparison of the alkaline HER overpotentials at 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> for HEANC/C with the reported advanced catalysts. h) Quantitative comparison of mass activity of HEANC/C with the reported noble-metal catalysts at −0.07 V (vs RHE) for alkaline HER.

dec<sup>−</sup>1), indicating that HEANC/C has the fastest growth of current density during the HER among all catalysts and follows a Volmer–Tafel mechanism.[\[39,40\]](#page-10-0) Notably, HEANC/C only needs an extremely small overpotential of 9.5 mV to achieve a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, outperforming the HEANP/C (17 mV) and commercial Pt/C (32 mV) (Figure S10, Supporting Information). Further, compared with commercial Pt/C and HEANP/C, HEANC/C also shows an overwhelming advantage in mass activity (Figure 2c), further confirming its extremely high activity for HER. In particular, at −0.07 V versus RHE (Figure S11, Supporting Information), HEANC/C achieves an ultrahigh mass activity of 12.85 A mg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> Pt<sup>+</sup>Ru, which is 17.36 and 1.97 times greater than those of commercial Pt/C (0.74 A mg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> Pt) and HEANP/C (6.51 A mg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> Pt<sup>+</sup>Ru), respectively. The Nyquist plots suggest that HEANC/C has a smaller charge transfer resistance (*R*ct) and faster electron transport efficiency than commercial Pt/C catalyst (Figure 2d). Stability is another crucial parameter for practical applications. Thus, the stability of HEANC/C for HER is

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** Electrocatalytic performance of HEANC/C for HzOR in 1 m KOH solution with 0.1 m hydrazine. a) HzOR polarization curves of HEANC/C, HEANP/C, C, and commercial Pt/C catalyst, normalized by geometric area. b) Tafel plots of HEANC/C, HEANP/C, and commercial Pt/C catalyst acquired from (a). c) HzOR polarization curves of HEANC/C, HEANP/C, C, and commercial Pt/C catalyst, normalized by catalysts' loading. These results were not iR corrected. d) Quantitative comparison of the mass activities of HEANC/C and other reported advanced catalysts at 0.05 V (vs RHE). e) Nyquist plots of HEANC/C and commercial Pt/C catalyst at −0.01 V (vs RHE). f) Stability test of HEANC/C through a constant applied potential for 25 h.

investigated in detail. As presented in Figure S12, Supporting Information, the result of chronoamperometric test reveals that HEANC/C can operate steadily for 45 h. Meanwhile, the polarization curve of HEANC/C shows almost no change after the accelerated degradation test (ADT) for 20 000 cycles (Figure [2e\)](#page-3-0), indicating the outstanding stability. As a sharp contrast, the HER performance of commercial Pt/C degrades severely after 10 000 cycles (Figure [2f\)](#page-3-0). What's more, after ADT for HER, the morphology of HEANC/C maintains intact without noticeable NCs loss, growth, or agglomeration (Figure S13, Supporting Information). The lattice fringes (Figure S14, Supporting Information) and EDS elemental mapping (Figure S15, Supporting Information) of HEANCs collected after stability test do not show obvious change, revealing the splendid structural stability and compositional stability of HEANC/C, respectively. The excellent stability of HEANC/C also indicates its feasibility of practical application. The prominent overall stability of HEANC/C should be mainly attributed to its high-entropy stabilization effect,[\[32,41\]](#page-10-0) which affords the high dissolution energies for all elements in HEANCs (Table S2, Supporting Information) and contributes to the strong corrosion resistance of HEANCs. Besides, the in situ growth of HEANCs affords a tight bonding between the NCs and carbon supports, effectively restraining NCs segregation and agglomeration during the electrochemical reactions. Finally, in order to further confirm and highlight extremely high activity of HEANC/C for HER, we also compared the HER performance of HEANC/C with those of other reported advanced catalysts. As shown in Figure [2g,h](#page-3-0) and Table S3, Supporting Information, HEANC/C exhibits the smallest overpotential at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and highest mass activity at −0.07 V versus RHE among these advanced catalysts, strongly demonstrating that HEANC/C has the best performance for HER, including the best specific activities and mass activities.

The HzOR performance of HEANC/C was also measured in a three-electrode system in 1.0 m KOH solution. Figure S16, Supporting Information shows the polarization curves of HEANC/C measured in different hydrazine concentrations. It can be observed that the current density increases with the increase of hydrazine concentration, indicating that the HEANC/C are highly efficient for HzOR. Moreover, the analysis of gas products confirms that the gas generated in HzOR is mainly nitrogen (Figure S17, Supporting Information) and **Figure 3**a displays the HzOR polarization curves of HEANC/C and control samples in 0.1 m hydrazine solution, normalized by geometric area. Compared with HEANP/C and commercial Pt/C catalyst, HEANC/C has a much lower onset potential and increases the current density more quickly, demonstrating that HEANC/C **[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.advmat.de](http://www.advmat.de)**

15214095, 2024, 13, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202309715 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

has higher intrinsic activity and specific activity for HzOR. The Tafel slope of HEANC/C is 32.0 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> (Figure [3b\)](#page-4-0), which is superior relative to those of HEANP/C (47.5 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) and commercial Pt/C (81.2 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), indicating the favorable kinetics of HEANC/C for HzOR. Moreover, the mass activities normalized by total metal loading also confirm HEANC/C ultrahigh activity for HzOR (Figure [3c\)](#page-4-0). As shown in Figure S18, Supporting Information, the mass activity of HEANC/C is as high as 3.26 A mg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> at 0.05 V versus RHE, 13.04 and 1.73 times higher than those of commercial Pt/C (0.25 A mg<sup>−</sup>1) and HEANP/C (1.88 A mg<sup>−</sup>1), respectively. Even compared with those of other outstanding catalysts shown in Figure [3d](#page-4-0) and Table S4, Supporting Information, the mass activity of HEANC/C is also the highest, demonstrating HEANC/C as one of the best electrocatalysts for HzOR. The Nyquist plots reveal that HEANC/C possesses a faster charge transfer and more advantageous kinetics for HzOR (Figure [3e\)](#page-4-0). Likewise, HEANC/C shows a remarkable stability for HzOR. The HEANC/C can retain 97.6% of the initial current density after a long-term test for 85 h (Figure [3f\)](#page-4-0), whereas commercial Pt/C only maintains 76.5% after 5 h test (Figure S18, Supporting Information). Moreover, after the stability test for HzOR, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) of HEANC/C shows a negligible change (Figure S19, Supporting Information); the morphology maintains intact with no NC growth and agglomeration (Figure S20, Supporting Information), the crystal structure is maintained well (Figure S21, Supporting Information), and all five elements in HEANCs are still uniformly dispersed (Figure S22, Supporting Information). These results adequately demonstrate that HEANC/C has the best-level catalytic activity and stability for HzOR.

#### **2.3. Electrochemical Performance of HEANC/C for Two-Electrode OHzS**

The sluggish kinetics of OER hinders the large-scale implementation of overall water splitting (OWS) for hydrogen production. However, considering the extremely superior performance of HEANC/C for HzOR in this work, it has a great potential to achieve higher efficiency and substantial energy saving for hydrogen production by replacing OER in OWS system with thermodynamically more favorable HzOR. As shown in Figure S23, Supporting Information, the comparison of HzOR and OER activities of HEANC/C fully verifies the absolute kinetic advantage of HzOR electrolysis. It only needs an ultralow potential of 0.015 V versus RHE to reach 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for HzOR, 1673 mV lower than that required for OER. Even compared to other oxidation reactions (Figure S24, Supporting Information), the HzOR also exhibits overwhelming advantages, including the lowest onset potential and fastest growth of current density. In addition, the excellent HER activity of HEANC/C can be maintained in the presence of hydrazine (Figure S25, Supporting Information). In view of these advantages, the HEANC/C is adopted as both anode and cathode catalysts in an OHzS electrolyzer, as schematically displayed in **Figure 4**[a.](#page-6-0) A comparison of the polarization curves of the OHzS and OWS systems directly reveals a dramatic improvement in electricity-saving hydrogen production with the OHzS system (Figure [4b\)](#page-6-0). Specifically, the OHzS system shows a much lower onset potential and faster current density growth than the OWS system. The OHzS system requires extremely low voltages of 0.025, 0.100, and 0.181 V to reach the current densities of 10, 50, and 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, respectively, which are significantly lower than those required by the OWS system (1.588, 1.709, and 1.802 V) (Figure S26, Supporting Information). Further, even compared with other reported electrolysis systems based on HER coupling various anodic reactions (Table S5, Supporting Information), the OHzS system in this work has much lower working voltages and higher energy efficiencies for hydrogen production. Taking the working voltage for 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> as an example, the OHzS system only needs a voltage of 0.025 V, which is much lower than other reported electrolysis systems (Figure [4c\)](#page-6-0), adequately demonstrating the absolute advantage of OHzS system for high-efficiency hydrogen production.

To further confirm the ultrahigh intrinsic activity of HEANC/C as bifunctional catalyst for OHzS, the commercial Pt/C as well as other reported bifunctional catalyst were compared. Figure [4d,e](#page-6-0) presents the OHzS activity comparisons of HEANC/C and commercial Pt/C, which were tested under the same conditions. Expectedly, the OHzS system using HEANC/C as bifunctional catalyst has obvious advantages over that adopting commercial Pt/C for high-efficiency hydrogen production. Moreover, compared with recently reported bifunctional catalyst for OHzS (Table S6, Supporting Information), HEANC/C shows the best-level performance. In particular, the OHzS system using HEANC/C as bifunctional catalyst produces the highest mass activity of 250.2 mA mg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> catalysts at the voltage of 0.1 V (Figure [4f\)](#page-6-0), further confirming that HEANC/C has the best-level activity toward OHzS. Meanwhile, the OHzS system with HEANC/C also shows great potential for practical applications in terms of stability, maintaining steady operation for 150 h (Figure [4g\)](#page-6-0). Quantitatively, 94.1% of the original current density is maintained after 150 h (Figure S27, Supporting Information). In contrast, the OHzS system with commercial Pt/C retains only 51.6% after 8 h (Figure [4h\)](#page-6-0). The OHzS system with HEANC/C also has better durability than the reported OHzS systems (Table S6, Supporting Information). Overall, the OHzS system in this work exhibits unprecedented performance for hydrogen production, adequately indicating that HEANC/C is among the best bifunctional catalysts for electrocatalytic hydrogen production.

In order to preliminarily trace the source of such high activity of HEANC/C, Brunauer–Emmet–Teller (BET) technology and electrochemical double-layer capacitance (*C*dl) method are employed. As shown in Figures S28 and S29, Supporting Information, both the BET and *C*dl results indicate that HEANCs possess an ultrahigh active surface area and atom utilization, which contribute to the ultrahigh activity of HEANC/C for HER, HzOR, and overall OHzS system for hydrogen production.

#### **2.4. Density Functional Theory (DFT) Calculations**

To gain insight into the extremely superior performance of HEANC/C for both HER and HzOR and thoroughly elucidate the mechanism of HEANC/C for overall OHzS system, DFT calculations were carried out. The structure model of HEANCs was constructed based on the experimental results of atomicresolution element distributions, molar ratio, and coordination environment of five elements. Continuous optimization until

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 4.** Electrochemical performance for OHzS using HEANC/C as a bifunctional catalyst. a) Schematic illustration of the membrane-free OHzS electrolyzer adopting HEANC/C as both anode and cathode catalysts. b) Polarization curves of OHzS and OWS electrolyzers using HEANC/C as both anode and cathode catalysts. The two-electrode OHzS and OWS systems were tested in 1 m KOH/0.1 m hydrazine and 1 m KOH solution, respectively. c) Quantitative comparison of electrolyzer performance at 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> based on HER coupling, various anodic reactions in two-electrode electrolyzers reported in the recent literatures. The HMFOR, EOR, UOR, GOR, SOR, and POR refer to oxidation reactions of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural, ethanol, urea, glycerol (glucose), sulfion, and 1-phenylethanol, respectively. d) Comparison of polarization curves of OHzS electrolyzers using HEANC/C and commercial Pt/C catalyst as bifunctional catalysts. e) Comparison of cell voltages at different current densities for OHzS using HEANC/C and commercial Pt/C as bifunctional catalysts, respectively. f) Quantitative comparison of the mass activities for OHzS using HEANC/C and other reported advanced catalysts as bifunctional catalysts. Stability tests of g) HEANC/C and h) commercial Pt/C for OHzS through constant applied potentials for 150 and 8 h, respectively.

the simulated and experimental XRD patterns were consistent (Figure S30, Supporting Information) gave the final structure model (**Figure 5**[a\)](#page-7-0). Notably, the constructed model had a lower surface energy than the other models in Figure S31, Supporting Information, confirming the rationality of the constructed model. For comparison, the Pt (111) surface model was also constructed (Figure S32, Supporting Information). As displayed in Figure [5b,](#page-7-0) charge density difference showed the electron redistribution and fine-tuning electronic structures of five elements in HEANCs. The optimized electronic structure of HEANCs may provide more active sites for both HER and HzOR. The projected partial density of states (PDOSs) of five elements in HEANCs were investigated to further confirm the electronic contributions (Figure [5c\)](#page-7-0). The Pt-5d orbital, which occupies the deepest

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 5.** DFT calculations for HER and HzOR. a) The top and side views of the model of HEANC (111) surface. The red, purple, green, orange, and red brown correspond to Pt, Ru, Co, Mo, and Ni atoms, respectively. b) Corresponding charge density difference analysis. c) The PDOSs of the HEANCs. d) H2O adsorption energies on different sites of HEANC (111) and Pt (111) surfaces. e) Calculated energy barriers for water dissociation on HEANC and pure Pt surfaces. f) Calculated Δ*G*H\* profiles for different sites on HEANC (111) and pure Pt (111) surfaces. g) N2H4 adsorption energies on HEANC (111) and Pt (111) surfaces. h) Calculated free energy profiles for the stepwise dehydrogenation process of N2H4 molecules on HEANC (111) and pure Pt (111) surfaces.

position, served as the main electron reservoir in the reduction process during the HER;[\[42\]](#page-10-0) while, the Ni-3d and Co-3d orbitals which occupied the bands near EF mainly acted as electron depletion center for HER and HzOR. The Ru-4d and Mo-4d orbitals had broad bands and crossed the EF, which could optimize the energy barrier of dehydrogenation processes[\[43\]](#page-10-0) and facilitate intermediate conversion in HzOR, ultimately accelerating the HzOR.

In-depth calculations were performed to further clarify the catalytic mechanism of HEANC/C for HER and HzOR. As mentioned above, the HEANC/C followed a Volmer–Tafel mechanism for HER. The Volmer step involved adsorption and dissociation of H2O molecules.[\[39\]](#page-10-0) Thus, the H2O adsorption energies (*E*ad) on different sites of HEANC (111) surface were first studied (Figure 5d and Figure S33 and Table S7, Supporting Information). The calculation results indicated that H2O molecules were more likely to adsorb on HEANC surface than on the pure Pt surface. In addition, water dissociation on HEANC and Pt surfaces was also calculated. As presented in Figure 5e, the energy barriers for water dissociation on representative Pt site (0.53 eV) and Mo site (0.41 eV) on HEANC surface were much lower than those on pure Pt surface (0.93 eV), revealing that the HEANCs were more favorable for H2O dissociation to H\* in Volmer step. As for Tafel step, the hydrogen-adsorption free energy (Δ*G*H\*) was a key parameter for evaluating the HER activity, and the state-of-the-art catalysts should have an optimum Δ*G*H\* close to 0 eV.[\[40,44\]](#page-10-0) A comparison of the hydrogen adsorption energies at different sites on the HEANC surface (Table S8, Supporting Information) revealed that H atoms were preferentially adsorbed

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**Figure 6.** Full-active-site and super-active-site catalytic mechanisms of HEANCs for overall OHzS system. a) Statistical graph of calculated Δ*G*H\* values for all sites on HEANC (111) surface in HER. b) Statistical graph of the energy barriers for RDS of HzOR on all sites of HEANC (111) surface. c) Summary diagram of the OHzS sites on HEANC (111) surface for HER and HzOR, which illustrate the full-active-site catalytic mechanism for overall OHzS system. d) Schematic illustration of the full-active-site catalytic mechanism of HEANCs for overall OHzS system.

on the hollow sites of the HEANC surface. Therefore, the hollow sites were selected for Δ*G*H\* calculations, summarized as 1–72 (Figure S34, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure [5f,](#page-7-0) most sites on HEANC surface had smaller absolute Δ*G*H\* values than the Pt site on pure Pt surface (−0.15 eV), indicating that these sites could promote more rapid H<sup>+</sup> adsorption and H2 release on HEANC surface, ultimately contributing to higher HER activity. In particular, the HER-32 site showed a surprising Δ*G*H\* value of −0.02 eV, which was close to the ideal Δ*G*H\* of 0 eV, indicating its ultrahigh activity for HER.

The theoretical revelation of the HzOR process on a complex multicomponent HEA catalyst surface was of great significance because this research had rarely been reported. In this work, the catalytic mechanism for HzOR on HEANC surface was investigated in detail. We compared the different adsorption conformations of N2H4 molecules on HEANC surface (Figure S35, Supporting Information), confirming that the bridge conformation with two N atoms adsorbed on the surfaces of two metal atoms was the most stable, consistent with our previous work.[\[45\]](#page-10-0) Based on this, we identified all potential active sites for HzOR on HEANC surface, marked as 1–108 (Figure S36, Supporting Information). Here, the HzOR-19 site was selected as the representative site for calculations. The adsorption energy results indicated that the HzOR-19 site was more favorable for the N2H4 adsorption than the Pt site on pure Pt surface (Figure [5g\)](#page-7-0), which was important for the following HzOR process. As reported in previous work,[\[46\]](#page-10-0) hydrazine electrooxidation reaction in an alkaline medium may follow several reaction paths. In this work, we mainly considered the four-electron dehydrogenation process of N2H4→N2H3→N2H2→N2H→N2 as the main calculation path, based on the experimental results (Figure S37, Supporting Information). Figure [5h](#page-7-0) and Table S9, Supporting Information, illustrates the stepwise dehydrogenation process of N2H4 molecules on HzOR-19 and pure Pt sites. As indicated, the whole dehydrogenation process that occurs on HzOR-19 site is a downhill process, implying that the entire HzOR process is thermodynamically favorable. In addition, the rate-determining step (RDS) of HzOR on HzOR-19 site is the desorption of \*N2 to N2, which has an extremely small energy barrier of 0.01 eV. As a sharp contrast, the RDS for pure Pt site is dehydrogenation of \*N2H3 to \*N2H2, in which the energy barrier is as high as 0.33 eV. These results demonstrate that the entire HzOR process proceeds more readily on the HzOR-19 site than the pure Pt site. Thus, the HEANC can afford ultrahigh activity for HzOR.

In order to thoroughly elucidate the mechanism of HEANC/C bifunctional catalysts for overall OHzS system, all sites on HEANC (111) surface for both HER and HzOR were carefully studied one by one. ∆*G*H\* is a critical descriptor of HER performance, especially the optimum Δ*G*H\* to thermoneutrality (Δ*G*H\* ≈ 0 eV) for an ultimate catalyst. Thus, the ∆*G*H\* of all sites (72 sites shown in Figure S34, Supporting Information) was calculated; the results are listed in Table S10, Supporting Information, and the representative sites and corresponding ∆*G*H\* are shown in **Figure 6**a. These 44 sites exhibited comparable or superior ∆*G*H\* relative to the Pt site on pure Pt surface (−0.15 eV). Especially, there were six sites possessing ultralow ∆*G*H\* (≤0.05 eV), which could be defined as super-active sites (HER-60, 32, 66, 65, 10, and 40). More surprisingly, the HER-60 super-active site afforded an unprecedented Δ*G*H\* of −0.01 eV, extremely close to 0 eV. To the best of our knowledge, this is the smallest absolute

<span id="page-9-0"></span>Δ*G*H\* value reported to date. Thus, these 44 sites, especially the six super-active sites, mainly contributed to the extremely high HER activity of HEANCs. In addition, all sites on HEANC (111) surface (108 sites, shown in Figure S36, Supporting Information) were investigated for HzOR. The calculated N2H4 adsorption energies of all 108 sites on HEANC (111) surface are listed in Table S11, Supporting Information. By selecting the site with the largest N2H4 adsorption energy among three adjacent sites, we preliminarily selected 46 sites for calculating the stepwise dehydrogenation process of N2H4 (Table S12, Supporting Information). There were 36 sites with energy barriers lower than pure Pt site for the RDS of HzOR, as plotted in Figure [6b,](#page-8-0) indicating that all these 36 sites had higher HzOR activity than pure Pt site. Moreover, there were 4 sites (HzOR-19, 62, 99, and 54) exhibiting ultralow energy barriers for RDS of HzOR (≤0.13 eV), which could be designated as super-active sites for HzOR.

To conduct a comprehensive analysis for HER and HzOR catalyzed by HEANCs, the active sites on HEANC surface for HER and HzOR were integrated. Three adjacent metal atoms were classified as an overall active site for OHzS. That is to say, each OHzS site contained three HzOR sites and one HER site. Thus, a total of 72 sites was obtained for overall OHzS on HEANC surface, as illustrated in Figure S38, Supporting Information. All OHzS sites on HEANC surface as effective active sites for HER and HzOR are summarized in Figure [6c](#page-8-0) and Table S13, Supporting Information. It can be concluded that each OHzS site was considered an effective active site for either the HER or HzOR, and some were effective active sites for both HER and HzOR, adequately demonstrating the full-active-site catalytic mechanism of the HEANCs for the overall OHzS system (Figure [6d\)](#page-8-0).

Overall, we have investigated all sites on HEANC surface and constructed active site libraries for the first time, including 72 sites for HER, 108 sites for HzOR, and 72 sites for overall OHzS system. The results indicate that all sites on HEANC surface are effectively active sites for OHzS system; especially, some are super-active sites, contributing to the best-level performance of HEANC/C for electrolytic hydrogen production.

## **3. Conclusion**

In summary, we first propose the concept of electrocatalysts with full-active sites and super-active sites by constructing HEANC catalysts. The HEANCs show an average size of only seven atomic layers (1.48 nm) and uniform distribution on carbon supports. Atomic-resolution EDS mapping technology precisely demonstrates the single-phase solid-solution structure of HEANCs. As the catalyst for both HER and HzOR, HEANC/C achieves the best-level performance among reported electrocatalysts. Further, when adopting HEANC/C as both anode and cathode catalysts for an overall OHzS electrolyzer, it requires ultralow working voltages of 0.025 and 0.181 V to reach 10 and 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, respectively, prominently outperforming the OWS system and other reported chemicals-assisted hydrogen production systems. Meanwhile, the OHzS system also displays a record mass activity of 250.2 mA mg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> catalysts at 0.1 V and an outstanding stability for 150 h. Theoretical calculations reveal that all the sites on HEANCs are effectively active sites for OHzS, especially some are hyperactive sites, endowing the best-level performance of HEANC/C. This work not only highlights HEANCs as sufficiently effective bifunctional catalysts in OHzS systems but also supplies a guiding line in the designing of high-activity catalysts in energy-related fields.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# **Acknowledgements**

This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (52130202, 52301259, and U1764255) and the National Key Research and Development Program of China (No. 2022YFB2502100). All support for this work is gratefully acknowledged.

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

## **Keywords**

full-active sites, high-entropy alloy, hydrazine oxidation reaction, hydrogen evolution reaction, nanoclusters, super-active sites

> Received: September 19, 2023 Revised: November 3, 2023 Published online: December 28, 2023

15214095, 2024, 13, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202309715 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [1] S. Chu, A. Majumdar, *Nature* **2012**, *488*, 294.
- [2] Z.-Y. Yu, Y. Duan, X.-Y. Feng, X. Yu, M.-R. Gao, S.-H. Yu, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2007100.
- [3] X. F. Lu, L. Yu, X. W. D. Lou, *Sci. Adv.* **2019**, *5*, eaav6009.
- [4] J. N. Tiwari, S. Sultan, C. W. Myung, T. Yoon, N. Li, M. Ha, A. M. Harzandi, H. J. Park, D. Y. Kim, S. S. Chandrasekaran, W. G. Lee, V. Vij, H. Kang, T. J. Shin, H. S. Shin, G. Lee, Z. Lee, K. S. Kim, *Nat. Energy* **2018**, *3*, 773.
- [5] S. Z. Oener, M. J. Foster, S. W. Boettcher, *Science* **2020**, *369*, 1099.
- [6] P. Nikolaidis, A. Poullikkas, *Renewable Sustainable Energy Rev.* **2017**, *67*, 597.
- [7] L. Li, P. Wang, Q. Shao, X. Huang, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2004243.
- [8] P. Amarnath, R. Madhu, K. Praveen, S. Govindarajan, S. Kundu, Y. Subramaniam, *ACS Appl. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *6*, 5899.
- [9] F. Sun, J. Qin, Z. Wang, M. Yu, X. Wu, X. Sun, J. Qiu, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 4182.
- [10] F. Luo, S. Pan, Y. Xie, C. Li, Y. Yu, H. Bao, Z. Yang, *Adv. Sci.* **2023**, *10*, 2305058.
- [11] Q. Qian, J. Zhang, J. Li, Y. Li, X. Jin, Y. Zhu, Y. Liu, Z. Li, A. El-Harairy, C. Xiao, G. Zhang, Y. Xie, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 5984.
- [12] D. Shao, Q. Wang, X. Yao, Y. Zhou, X.-Y. Yu, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2022**, *10*, 21848.
- [13] X.-W. Lv, Q.-H. Kong, X.-L. Song, Y.-P. Liu, Z.-Y. Yuan, *Inorg. Chem. Front.* **2022**, *9*, 6182.

<span id="page-10-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.advmat.de](http://www.advmat.de)**

15214095, 2024, 13, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202309715 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [14] S. Chen, J. Duan, A. Vasileff, S. Z. Qiao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 3804.
- [15] Y. X. Chen, A. Lavacchi, H. A. Miller, M. Bevilacqua, J. Filippi, M. Innocenti, A. Marchionni, W. Oberhauser, L. Wang, F. Vizza, *Nat. Commun.* **2014**, *5*, 4036.
- [16] K. Yin, Y. Chao, F. Lv, L. Tao, W. Zhang, S. Lu, M. Li, Q. Zhang, L. Gu, H. Li, S. Guo, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2021**, *143*, 10822.
- [17] Y. Li, X. Wei, L. Chen, J. Shi, M. He, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 5335.
- [18] L. Fan, Y. Ji, G. Wang, J. Chen, K. Chen, X. Liu, Z. Wen, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 7224.
- [19] L. Yi, Y. Ji, P. Shao, J. Chen, J. Li, H. Li, K. Chen, X. Peng, Z. Wen, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 21550.
- [20] L. Zhang, Z. Wang, J. Qiu, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2109321.
- [21] W.-J. Liu, Z. Xu, D. Zhao, X.-Q. Pan, H.-C. Li, X. Hu, Z.-Y. Fan, W.-K. Wang, G.-H. Zhao, S. Jin, G. W. Huber, H.-Q. Yu, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 265.
- [22] G. Yang, Y. Jiao, H. Yan, Y. Xie, A. Wu, X. Dong, D. Guo, C. Tian, H. Fu, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *32*, 2000455.
- [23] T. Wang, L. Tao, X. Zhu, C. Chen, W. Chen, S. Du, Y. Zhou, B. Zhou, D. Wang, C. Xie, P. Long, W. Li, Y. Wang, R. Chen, Y. Zou, X.-Z. Fu, Y. Li, X. Duan, S. Wang, *Nat. Catal.* **2022**, *5*, 66.
- [24] T. Wang, X. Cao, L. Jiao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202213328.
- [25] Y. Liu, J. Zhang, Y. Li, Q. Qian, Z. Li, Y. Zhu, G. Zhang, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 1853.
- [26] Y. Li, J. Zhang, Y. Liu, Q. Qian, Z. Li, Y. Zhu, G. Zhang, *Sci. Adv.* **2020**, *6*, eabb4197.
- [27] Q. Ding, Y. Zhang, X. Chen, X. Fu, D. Chen, S. Chen, L. Gu, F. Wei, H. Bei, Y. Gao, M. Wen, J. Li, Z. Zhang, T. Zhu, R. O. Ritchie, Q. Yu, *Nature* **2019**, *574*, 223.
- [28] Y. Yao, Z. Huang, P. Xie, S. D. Lacey, R. J. Jacob, H. Xie, F. Chen, A. Nie, T. Pu, M. Rehwoldt, D. Yu, M. R. Zachariah, C. Wang, R. Shahbazian-Yassar, J. Li, L. Hu, *Science* **2018**, *359*, 1489.
- [29] G. Feng, F. Ning, Y. Pan, T. Chen, J. Song, Y. Wang, R. Zou, D. Su, D. Xia, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 11140.
- [30] Y. Yao, Z. Huang, T. Li, H. Wang, Y. Liu, H. S. Stein, Y. Mao, J. Gao, M. Jiao, Q. Dong, J. Dai, P. Xie, H. Xie, S. D. Lacey, I. Takeuchi, J. M.

- Gregoire, R. Jiang, C. Wang, A. D. Taylor, R. Shahbazian-Yassar, L. Hu, *Proc Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A.* **2020**, *117*, 6316.
- [31] G. Feng, F. Ning, J. Song, H. Shang, K. Zhang, Z. Ding, P. Gao, W. Chu, D. Xia, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2021**, *143*, 17117.
- [32] Y. Xin, S. Li, Y. Qian, W. Zhu, H. Yuan, P. Jiang, R. Guo, L. Wang, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 11280.
- [33] R. G. Kadam, T. Zhang, D. Zaoralová, M. Medved, A. Bakandritsos, O. Tomanec, M. Petr, J. Zhu Chen, J. T. Miller, M. Otyepka, R. Zbor?Il, T. Asefa, M. B. Gawande, *Small* **2021**, *17*, 2006477.
- [34] J. Yang, W. Li, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2003300.
- [35] X. Fu, D. Cheng, C. Wan, S. Kumari, H. Zhang, A. Zhang, H. Huyan, J. Zhou, H. Ren, S. Wang, Z. Zhao, X. Zhao, J. Chen, X. Pan, P. Sautet, Y. Huang, X. Duan, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2301533.
- [36] Y. Kuang, G. Feng, P. Li, Y. Bi, Y. Li, X. Sun, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 693.
- [37] W. Chen, J. Pei, C.-T. He, J. Wan, H. Ren, Y. Wang, J. Dong, K. Wu, W.- C. Cheong, J. Mao, X. Zheng, W. Yan, Z. Zhuang, C. Chen, Q. Peng, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1800396.
- [38] Q.-Q. Yan, D.-X. Wu, S.-Q. Chu, Z.-Q. Chen, Y. Lin, M.-X. Chen, J. Zhang, X.-J. Wu, H.-W. Liang, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 4977.
- [39] J. Huang, J. Han, T. Wu, K. Feng, T. Yao, X. Wang, S. Liu, J. Zhong, Z. Zhang, Y. Zhang, B. Song, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2019**, *4*, 3002.
- [40] J. Zheng, Y. Yan, B. Xu, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2015**, *162*, F1470.
- [41] S. Gao, S. Hao, Z. Huang, Y. Yuan, S. Han, L. Lei, X. Zhang, R. Shahbazian-Yassar, J. Lu, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, *11*, 2020.
- [42] C. Zhan, Y. Xu, L. Bu, H. Zhu, Y. Feng, T. Yang, Y. Zhang, Z. Yang, B. Huang, Q. Shao, X. Huang, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 6261.
- [43] H. Li, Y. Han, H. Zhao, W. Qi, D. Zhang, Y. Yu, W. Cai, S. Li, J. Lai, B. Huang, L. Wang, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 5437.
- [44] X. Zhang, Z. Luo, P. Yu, Y. Cai, Y. Du, D. Wu, S. Gao, C. Tan, Z. Li, M. Ren, T. Osipowicz, S. Chen, Z. Jiang, J. Li, Y. Huang, J. Yang, Y. Chen, C. Y. Ang, Y. Zhao, P. Wang, L. Song, X. Wu, Z. Liu, A. Borgna, H. Zhang, *Nat. Catal.* **2018**, *1*, 460.
- [45] G. Feng, L. An, B. Li, Y. Zuo, J. Song, F. Ning, N. Jiang, X. Cheng, Y. Zhang, D. Xia, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 4514.
- [46] W. X. Yin, Z. P. Li, J. K. Zhu, H. Y. Qin, *J. Power Sources* **2008**, *182*, 520.