---
source: Gao 等 - 2016 - Copper Nanoclusters on Carbon Supports for the Electrochemical Oxidation and Detection of Hydrazine.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 29.319s
generated: 2026-01-10T07:21:15.240633Z
---

DOI: 10.1002/celc.201600036 Articles

## Copper Nanoclusters on Carbon Supports for the Electrochemical Oxidation and Detection of Hydrazine

Xiaohui Gao,[a, b] Cheng Du,[a, b] Chunmei Zhang,[a, b] and Wei Chen\*[a]

Owing to the definite composition and unique properties, metal nanoclusters have attracted much attention in recent years. In this work, we design a simple one-pot chemical method to synthesize a new type of copper clusters. The structures and composition of the clusters are characterized by using various techniques. Electrospray ionization mass spectrometry characterizations clearly show that the product is mainly composed of a seven-copper-atom core and three thiolate ligands with the formula of Cu7(C7H5O2S)3 , together with four- and six-copper-atom clusters. On the other hand, direct hydrazine fuel cells have attracted extensive research interests and more and more efforts have been devoted into the development of novel catalysts for the electrochemical oxidation and detection of hydrazine. Here, we investigate the electrocatalytic performance of the copper clusters towards the oxidation and detection of hydrazine. Electrochemical studies display that the synthesized cluster compounds supported on activated carbon show an onset potential of -0.42 V and a current density of 20 mA cm-<sup>2</sup> at the potential of 0.36 V for the oxidation of hydrazine. Meanwhile, the copper clusters show a limit of detection of 1.04 mm and a sensitivity of 0.408 mA cm-2mm-<sup>1</sup> in the detection of hydrazine. These studies clearly demonstrate that the as-synthesized copper clusters exhibit excellent electrocatalytic performance for the oxidation and detection of hydrazine. Notably, the catalytic performance is superior to the previously reported Cu-based or Ni-based, and even noble-metal-based, catalysts.

## 1. Introduction

With ceaseless depletion of fossil fuels and their increasing negative environmental impact, more and more attention has been focused on low-cost and clean direct liquid fuel cells, because of their high energy density, high power density, and potential application in mobile and stationary devices.[1] Currently, as an alternative fuel for fuel cells, hydrazine shows particular advantages resulting from its instinctive characteristics compared to carbonaceous organic chemicals such as the alcohols, ethers, and organic acids.[2] Firstly, nitrogen and water are the oxidation products, which do not contain any toxic substances or greenhouse gases (carbon dioxide). Secondly, zero production of carbonaceous species efficiently avoids the poisoning of catalysts during the reaction. Thirdly, the high theoretical electromotive force (1.56 V) endows a high power density.[3] Thus, the development of electrocatalysts with superior catalytic activity for hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR) is absolutely necessary, which will largely promote the advance of hydrazine fuel cells. On the other hand, hydrazine is very toxic to organisms, because it may cause cancer, irritation of respiratory and skin, weight loss, anemia, and damage to the lung, liver, and kidney.[4] Meanwhile, it is diffusely used as rocket fuel, insecticides, photographic chemicals, and so on.[5] Therefore, the sensitive detection of hydrazine is of great importance to ensure our healthy living environment. So far, various materials such as noble metals, metal oxides, carbon materials, and metal alloys have been investigated as catalysts for HzOR and the detection of hydrazine.[6] For example, Ye et al. reported a carbon-nanotube-supported Pd–Ni composite as a highly efficient catalyst for HzOR, and Yue et al. presented the high performance of Pt nanoparticles deposited on TiO2 for electrocatalytic oxidation and determination of hydrazine.[7] Recently, Meng et al. studied N and O co-doped mesoporous carbon as a metal-free electrocatalyst for HzOR with a low onset/peak potential and high current density.[8] In another report, Wang et al. studied the catalytic performance of TiO2-film-supported nanogold for the detection of hydrazine with a limit of detection (LOD) of 0.5 mm. [4] Nevertheless, there is still room and demand to seek novel catalysts to facilitate the practical application of direct hydrazine fuel cells (DHFCs) and sensitive detection of hydrazine.

Metal nanoclusters (NCs), consisting of few to hundreds of atoms, have attracted a lot of attention and are emerging as a new type of nanomaterials, which display distinctly different physical and chemical properties from their bulk counterpart, owing to the quantum size confinement effect.[1b, 9] Owing to the high surface area-to-volume ratio from the tiny size

- [a] X. Gao, C. Du, C. Zhang, Prof. W. Chen State Key Laboratory of Electroanalytical Chemistry Changchun Institute of Applied Chemistry Chinese Academy of Sciences, Changchun 130022 (P.R. China) E-mail: weichen@ciac.ac.cn
- [b] X. Gao, C. Du, C. Zhang University of Chinese Academy of Sciences Beijing 100039 (P.R. China)
- Supporting Information for this article can be found under [http://](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/celc.201600036) [dx.doi.org/10.1002/celc.201600036.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/celc.201600036)
- An invited contribution to a Special Issue on Monolayer-Protected Clusters

(<2 nm), comparable to the Fermi wavelength of an electron, it is reasonably expected that metal NCs will show superior catalytic properties compared to their larger counterpart. Actually, metal NCs have been found to exhibit excellent catalytic properties in recent years. For example, gold clusters embedded in interfacially cross-linked reverse micelles (ICRMs) have been used to catalyze the room-temperature hydroamination of alkynes.[10] Atomically precise gold NCs have been studied as homogeneous catalysts for the conversion of 4-nitrobenzaldehyde to 4-nitrobenzyl alcohol.[11] Another study showed that sub-nanometer-sized Au38 NCs could boost the performance of a solar cell.[12] Ultrasmall silver and gold NCs can also be used as high-performance catalysts for the oxygen reduction reaction.[13] However, it is worth mentioning that most studies on NCs mainly focus on noble metals (Au and Ag, limited resources) and their counterpart (Cu, earth abundant), that is, copper clusters, have been rarely reported. Previously, our group demonstrated the synthesis and application of copper NCs in the oxygen reduction reaction and detection of glucose.[14] Based on previous reports, showing that Cu-based materials have great potential for the electrochemical oxidation and detection of hydrazine,[15] we study here the electrocatalytic properties of copper clusters for the oxidation and detection of hydrazine.

In this work, a simple one-pot wet chemical method was used to synthesize a new type of copper cluster [Cu7(C7H5O2S)3 -), with sodium borohydride (NaBH4) as the reducing agent and mercaptobenzoic acid (MBA) as the stabilizing ligand. In this method, complicated post-synthesis steps are not needed. The copper clusters that are formed can spontaneously be precipitated from the reaction mixture. The assynthesized Cu clusters were well characterized by using various techniques, including mass spectrometry, UV/Vis absorption spectroscopy, X-ray photoelectron energy spectroscopy, FTIR, and <sup>1</sup> H NMR. Electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) results give the formulae for the copper clusters of Cu7(C7H5O2S)3 -, Cu4(C7H5O2S)2–3-, and Cu6(C7H5O2S)2–3-, which have not been reported previously. Furthermore, the as-synthesized copper clusters were loaded on activated carbon and the obtained composite exhibited excellent catalytic performance for the HzOR, with an onset potential of -0.42 V and a current density of 20 mA cm-<sup>2</sup> at a potential of 0.36 V in 0.1m KOH. Besides, the prepared Cu-cluster-based composite can also be used as an electrochemical sensing material for the sensitive and selective detection of hydrazine with a LOD of 0.126 mm and a sensitivity of 0.408 mA cm-2mm-1 . We hope the successful synthesis of Cu7(SR)3 and the exploration of new applications of Cu clusters in this work will push forward the progress of metal, especially Cu, NCs in the catalytic field.

## 2. Results and Discussion

#### 2.1. Synthesis and Characterization of Cu NCs

In this work, copper NCs were synthesized by using a simple process with MBA as the stabilizing ligand and NaBH4 as a reducing agent. There are three key points, favoring the successful formation of copper clusters. 1) The use of MBA as the capping ligand. MBA is a special aromatic organic and can be dissolved in most of solvents such as water, alcohol, and acetone, owing to the co-existence of hydrophilic and hydrophobic groups in the molecule. In previous studies, by using MBA as the protecting ligand, gold and silver NCs with determined crystallographic structures have been successfully synthesized, for example, Au102 and Ag44. [16] Therefore, we believe MBA plays an important role in protecting the metal core of NCs and can also be chosen to prepare copper clusters, especially water-soluble and stable copper clusters. 2) The use of NaBH4 as a reducing agent. NaBH4 is a well-known strong reducing agent and it facilitates the rapid nucleation of metal clusters. Therefore, the formation of small copper clusters results from the fast reaction kinetics. 3) The importance of the solvent, ethanol, cannot be ignored in this system. With ethanol as the solvent, because of the good solubility of the precursors and the poor solubility of the product, the copper clusters that are produced can spontaneously be precipitated and separated from the reaction mixture, which can efficiently avoid aggregation and collision in solution and result in high purity and high yield. Meanwhile, the obtained clusters can also avoid the generally tedious post-synthesis process. The high purity of the synthesized copper clusters can be confirmed by using a polyarylamide gel electrophoresis experiment (PAGE).[17] As shown in Figure 1 a (inset, right), only one clear yellow band was found on the gel plate, indicating that the produced copper cluster species are close to each other in composition.

The optical properties of the synthesized copper clusters were first characterized by using UV/Vis absorption spectroscopy. As demonstrated in Figure 1 a, different from the large copper nanoparticles that show a surface plasmon resonance (SPR) band at around 570 nm, the present copper clusters display a defined, discrete absorption band from near-infrared to ultraviolet, similar to gold and silver NCs.[18] The strongest peak located at 265 nm and a broad absorption band around 400 nm are attributed to the interband transition. Meanwhile, two other absorption broad bands were also observed in the longer wavelength region, that is, from 600 to 800 nm, and another is centered at 900 nm, ranging from 800 to 1000 nm, which can be assigned to the intraband transition (Figure 1 a, inset, left).

To determine the exact composition of the as-prepared copper clusters, ESI-MS analysis, a soft-ionization mass spectrometry technique, was performed. Figure 1 b shows the negative-mode ESI-MS of the clusters. It can be seen that there are a series of peaks with isotopic distribution of copper and no obvious signals of any impurities can be observed when m/z> 500. The highest peak at m/z=902.91 could be from the parent copper cluster and, thus, the formula of the cluster is speculated to be [Cu7(C7H5SO2)3-H]-. To the best our knowledge, this is the first report of such copper NCs. Other peaks with smaller m/z values located at 877.68, 866.64, 850.56, 835.42, 823.43, and 811.13 (Figure 1 b, inset) can be assigned to [Cu7L2+Cs]-, [Cu6L3+Na]-, [Cu4L3+Cs]-, [Cu6L2+Cs+Na]-, [Cu4L2+2 Cs]-, and [Cu4L3+2H]-, respectively. From Figure S1, one can see that there is good overlap of the simulated and experimental patterns. Based on the PAGE result and the ESI-

**Figure 1.** a) UV/Vis absorption spectrum of the as-synthesized copper clusters in water. Inset left: the enlarged spectrum of UV/Vis absorption in the wavelength range from 550 to 1100 nm. Inset right: digital photograph of copper cluster aqueous solution and PAGE. b) Full ESI-MS spectrum of the synthesized cluster product in the negative mode. Inset: magnification of the spectrum at m/z = 790-950.

MS shown in Figure S1 and S2,  $Cu_7(C_7H_5O_2S)_3^-$  is the predominant component of the product. It should be pointed out that the  $Cu_4(C_7H_5O_2S)_{2-3}^-$  and  $Cu_6(C_7H_5O_2S)_{2-3}^-$  species may be fragments of  $Cu_7(C_7H_5O_2S)_3^-$ . On the basis of ESI-MS results, the core structure of the present  $Cu_7(C_7H_5SO_2)_3$  cluster is proposed to be a tetrahedron with two *exo* copper atoms on one side and one *exo* copper atom on the other side, and the total heptanuclear core is coordinated to three thiolates, which is similar to the previously reported  $Au_7$  cluster. However, the precise structure of  $Cu_7(SR)_3$  needs to be further studied by resolving the X-ray crystallography data, which will be done in our future work.

To get further insight into the surface information and metal-core characteristics of the synthesized copper clusters, X-ray photoelectron energy spectroscopy (XPS), Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), and proton nuclear magnetic resonance ( $^1H$  NMR) spectroscopy were conducted. As shown in Figures 2a and 2b, the XPS survey spectrum demonstrates the existences of Cu, S, C, and O in the product, and the XPS peaks of Cu  $^2$ p<sub>1/2</sub> and Cu  $^2$ p<sub>3/2</sub> are located at 953.0 and 933.0 eV, respectively. It is worth mentioning that Cu<sup>II</sup> is not present in the prepared NCs based on the absent signal at

942 eV. Owing to the minimal difference in the binding energies between Cu<sup>0</sup> and Cu<sup>1</sup>, and charge transfer in the Cu-SR bonds, the oxidation state of the synthesized Cu<sub>7</sub>(C<sub>7</sub>H<sub>5</sub>SO<sub>2</sub>)<sub>3</sub> NCs is speculated to be between 0 and +1. Meanwhile, the XPS peak for S2p in Figure 2c represents chemisorbed sulfur, suggesting the successful preparation of metallic copper clusters stabilized by MBA. In the FTIR spectrum (Figure S3), compared to the free MBA ligand, the peak at 2525 cm<sup>-1</sup> (corresponding to S-H stretching vibration) is absent in the spectrum of clusters, and the stretching vibration of C=O is still present, implying that MBA ligands have been successfully linked onto the surface of the metal core through Cu-S bonding. Furthermore, owing to the connection with the metal core and deprotonation of -COOH, the stretching vibration of C=O downshifts noticeably. The interaction between the MBA ligand and the metal core can be more deeply corroborated by <sup>1</sup>H NMR spectroscopy, as shown in Figure 2 d. In the <sup>1</sup>H NMR spectrum of pure MBA, the peaks located at 7.33 and 7.21 ppm come from the hydrogen of the benzene ring. Active hydrogen from -SH cannot be observed, as D<sub>2</sub>O was used as the solvent. However, the NMR signals from -SH can be observed at 10.73 ppm with p-acetone as the solvent (Figure S4). Upon bonding with the copper-metal core and under the influence of the electron effect, <sup>1</sup>H NMR signals of MBA evolve into a finer structure with changing chemical shifts and coupling constants. The protons close to -SH show larger and more noticeable downshifts, whereas protons near -COOH give a smaller downshift. Meanwhile, both coupling constants increase. The NMR characterizations further confirm the successful capping of MBA on the copper core. [20]

# 2.2. Application of Copper Clusters Supported on Activated Carbon in the Electrochemical Oxidation and Detection of Hydrazine

Owing to the small size and high surface area-to-volume ratio, the potential application of the as-synthesized copper clusters was studied in the electrochemical oxidation and detection of hydrazine. Here, to improve the stability, the as-synthesized copper clusters were supported on activated carbon (AC) by simply stirring the mixture for 24 h at room temperature, as described in the Experimental Section. XPS results of the product shown in Figure S5 clearly reveal the signals of Cu and S, indicating the successful formation of the Cu NCs/AC composite. In the electrochemical tests, a pure AC-modified glassy carbon electrode (AC/GC) was also studied for comparison. Figure 3 a shows the typical cyclic voltammograms (CVs) of AC and Cu NCs/AC in 0.1 M KOH. Compared to the featureless CV from AC, the CV of Cu NCs/AC displays clear redox characteristic peaks of copper in the potential window from -0.6 to 0.2 V.[21] In the positive-potential scan, two oxidation current peaks of Cu<sup>0</sup>/Cu<sup>1</sup> and Cu<sup>1</sup>/Cu<sup>11</sup> are observed at -0.15 and -0.06 V, respectively, and in the reverse scan, the peaks located around -0.35 and -0.47 V can be respectively attributed to the reduction reaction from Cu<sup>II</sup> to Cu<sup>I</sup> and Cu<sup>I</sup> to Cu<sup>0</sup>. These CVs further demonstrate the successful preparation of copper

Figure 2. a) XPS survey spectrum of the as-synthesized copper clusters. b) Cu 2p and c) S 2p XPS signals of the copper NCs. d) <sup>1</sup> H NMR spectra of the synthesized copper clusters and pure MBA ligand. Inset: molecular structure of MBA with the hydrogen atoms on benzene ring labeled numerically.

clusters and the formation of the Cu NCs/AC composite, which is consistent with the above XPS results.

Linear-sweep voltammetry (LSV) was then used to examine the electrochemical catalytic activity of copper clusters towards HzOR, as shown in Figure 3 b. Upon comparison to the LSV curve in the absence of hydrazine, the LSV curve from Cu NCs/ AC shows a prominent oxidation current in 0.1m KOH in the presence of 0.1m hydrazine. Moreover, the oxidation current increases with increasing potential, with a small current peak at approximately 0.0 V, suggesting the excellent electrochemical performance of the Cu NCs/AC composite. In the present catalyst system, the onset potential for the HzOR is around -0.42 V and a current density of 20 mA cm-<sup>2</sup> can be achieved with an overpotential of 0.36 V, which is superior to most of the previously reported Cu-based and Ni-based nanomaterials, even noble-metal-based nanocatalysts.[22] It should be noted that gas bubbles can be observed during the polarization process. In addition, compared to the Cu NCs/AC composite, AC shows a more positive onset potential of -0.1 V and a current density of 7.5 mA cm-<sup>2</sup> at an overpotential of 0.36 V (Figure 3 b). Such electrochemical results indicate that the synthesized copper NCs play a key role in the electrochemical oxidation of hydrazine and may be a promising noble-metal-free candidate for direct hydrazine fuel cells.

Based on the high catalytic activity of the Cu NCs/AC composite for the oxidation of hydrazine, the performance of the copper clusters for the electrochemical detection of hydrazine was then studied. In the electrochemical tests, 0.25 V was chose as the working potential and the amperometry was conducted. As presented in Figure 4 a, the amperometric current rapidly increases with the successive addition of hydrazine into the electrolyte, indicating the fast-response ability of the Cu NCs/AC composite. Figure 4 a (inset) shows the corresponding linear fitting curve between the current density and the concentration of hydrazine, and the calibration equation can be described as: y=0.40856x+0.008 (R<sup>2</sup>=0.998). Based on the signal-to-noise ratio of 3, the LOD of the present cluster sensing system can be evaluated to be 1.04 mm, which is superior or comparable to the values reported in the literature (as shown in Table 1). Table 1 lists and compares the LOD values and linear ranges of the present Cu NCs/AC composite with those of the previously reported sensors for hydrazine detection. Selectivity studies of the Cu NCs/AC composite for the detection of hydrazine against ascorbic acid and nitrogen-containing compounds, such as NH4NO3, sulfourea, urea, and dicyandiamide, were also carried out. As shown in Figure 4 b, the introduction of interferences (0.5 mm) did not cause any change in the responding current density and would, therefore, not influence the subsequent detection of hydrazine, illustrating the good selectivity of the Cu NC-based sensor for the detection of hydrazine. These electrochemical results show that the as-synthesized copper clusters can not only serve as

Figure 3. a) Cyclic voltammetry curves of Cu NCs/AC (black) and pure AC (red) in 0.1m KOH. Scan rate: 10 mV s-. b) LSV curves of Cu NCs/AC in 0.1m KOH (red) and 0.1m KOH+0.1m N2H4 (black) and pure AC/GC in 0.1m KOH+0.1m N2H4(blue). Scan rate: 10 mV s-1 .

Figure 4. a) The responding current density–time curve (j–t) from Cu NCs/AC with successive addition of hydrazine into 0.1m KOH at 0.25 V. The black and red curves represent the j–t curves with and without hydrazine in the electrolyte, respectively. Inset: the linear relationship between the current density and concentration of hydrazine. b) The amperometric response of Cu NCs/AC for the successive addition of 0.5 mm hydrazine and 0.5 mm interference compounds including AA, NH4NO3, sulfourea (SU), urea, and dicyandiamide (DCA) in 0.1m KOH.

a type of novel electrocatalyst with excellent performance for direct hydrazine fuel cells, but they can also be used to construct an electrochemical sensor for the detection of hydrazine with high sensitivity and selectivity.

From the above results, the prepared copper clusters show high electrocatalytic activity for hydrazine oxidation. According to the previous studies of hydrazine oxidation on transitionmetal catalysts,[23] hydrazine is first adsorbed on the surface of catalysts by forming an Nmetal bond, and then hydrazine could be electrooxidized to H2O in alkaline medium through the following 4 e process: N2H4+4OH-!N2+4H2O+4 e-. However, such a mechanism needs to be confirmed by using in situ electrochemical techniques.

| Catalyst           | Electrolyte | Applied potential [V] | Linear range [mm] | LOD [mm] | Ref.      |
|--------------------|-------------|-----------------------|-------------------|----------|-----------|
| Pd/CNF             | 0.1 m PBS   | 0.32<br>              | 10–4000           | 2.9      | [24]      |
| Ag/ZIF-8           | 0.1 m KOH   | <br>0.05              | 6–5000            | 1.57     | [25]      |
| Pt/TiO2            | 0.1 m PBS   | 0.3                   | 20–2100           | 2        | [7b]      |
| Pd bamboo MWCNTs   | PBS[a]      | 0.065                 | 56–157            | 10       | [26]      |
| MnHCF graphite wax | PBS[a]      | 0.45                  | 33–8180           | 6.65     | [27]      |
| Pd-plated BDD      | PBS[a]      | 0.16                  | 10–102            | 1.8      | [28]      |
| Cu clusters/AC     | 0.1 m KOH   | 0.25                  | 1.04–425          | 1.04     | this work |

## 3. Conclusions

In this work, by using MBA as the protecting ligand, novel Cu7(C7H5SO2)3 NCs were successfully synthesized. The formula of the synthesized copper cluster was determined by using ESI-MS, and the surface state of the copper clusters was also studied through FTIR, XPS, and <sup>1</sup> H NMR spectroscopy. Furthermore, the presented copper clusters display discrete optical absorption bands that are totally different from the SPR feature of larger Cu nanoparticles. Moreover, the copper clusters supported on AC showed excellent catalytic performance for the oxidation of hydrazine. Meanwhile, by taking advantage of the high catalytic activity, the copper clusters can be used as an electrochemical sensing platform for the sensitive and selective detection of hydrazine. We hope this work could promote the development of the practical application of non-noble metal nanoclusters in the electrochemical field. In future, we anticipate the synthesis of more other sized copper NCs and the exploration of more potential applications in other fields, such as solar cells, cell imaging, drug delivery, and cancer treatment.

## Experimental Section

#### Materials

Copper sulfate (CuSO4, anhydrous) was purchased from Tianjin East China Reagent Factory. Mercaptobenzoic acid (MBA) was bought from Alfa Aesar. Sodium borohydride (NaBH4) and cesium hydroxide (CsOH) were purchased from Acros Organics. Ethanol, hydrazine hydrate, ascorbic acid, potassium hydrate, and urea were obtained from Beijing Chemical Reagent. Thiourea (CN2H4S) and ammonium nitrate (NH4NO3) were purchased from Beijing Yili Chemical Co., Ltd and Beijing Red Star Chemical Plant, respectively. Activated carbon (Vulcan XC-72) was obtained from Cabot Corporation. The water used in these experiments was supplied by a Water Purifier Ultrapure water system (18.3 MWcm). All glass vessels were bathed in aqua regia overnight and then rinsed with ultrapure water.

#### Characterization

UV/Vis spectra were collected from a UV-3000PC spectrophotometer (Shanghai Mapada Instrumental Co., Ltd). X-Ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) measurements were conducted by using an AVG Thermo ESCALAB 250 spectrometer (VG scientific) operated at 120 W. Electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) experiments were completed on a LTQ linear ion-trap mass spectrometer (Thermo, San Jose, CA, USA), equipped with a conventional ESI source. Fourier-transformed infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) tests were performed on a VERTTEX 70 FTIR (KBr wafer technique). <sup>1</sup> H NMR spectroscopy was carried out by using Avance III HD 500 (Switzerland, Bruker).

#### Syntheses of Copper Clusters and Cu NCs/AC Composite

Here, the synthesis of copper NCs was achieved in one pot with NaBH4 as a reducing agent and mercaptobenzoic acid (MBA) as the stabilizing ligand. Typically, MBA solid (34 mg) was dissolved in ethanol (7 mL) in a 25 mL glass flask. Then, the mixed solution of ethanol (2 mL) and water (2 mL) containing CuSO4 (12 mg) was added dropwise into the glass flask with constant stirring. The color of the solution changed gradually from colorless to transparent yellow, and then to cloudy yellow. After 1 h, CsOH aqueous solution (120 mL) was added to adjust the pH of the reaction mixture, with the color turning cloudy white. Finally, 2 mL of an ethanol solution of NaBH4 (19 mg) was introduced slowly and white or/and light yellow precipitates were observed immediately, which spontaneously separated from the reaction mixture, indicating the formation of copper clusters with high purity. The precipitation process stopped after 2 h and the reaction vessel was incubated in a fridge overnight. The liquid supernatant was decanted and a small amount of water was added to dissolve the copper clusters. Subsequently, ethanol was used as a sedimentation agent and the precipitates were collected through centrifugation. To further improve the purity, washing and centrifugation could be repeated two or three times.

The Cu NCs/AC composite was prepared by using a simple mix–agitation process. Briefly, the synthesized copper clusters were first lyophilized and the water solution of 5 mg solid powders was added to the flask containing AC (10 mg) and water (10 mL). The mixture was stirred for 24 h at room temperature and the final composite was obtained after centrifugation. The prepared Cu NCs/AC composite was then dispersed in water for further use.

#### Polyacrylamide Gel Electrophoresis (PAGE)

The PAGE experiment was conducted according to previous reports with minor revision.[14b, 29] Homemade gels were used. The resolving gel contained 30% concentration of acrylamide monomer and 4% bis-acrylamide crosslinker, and the stacking gel consisted of 4% monomer concentration. The eluting buffer was prepared with THAM [tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane, 25 mm] and glycine (192 mm), and the gel dimensions were 20 cm 20 cm 1 mm. Voltages of 100 and 120 V were used for the stacking gel and resolving gel, respectively. All processes were performed at room temperature.

### Electrochemical Measurements

All electrochemical measurements were conducted on a CHI 660D electrochemical workstation in a standard three-electrode cell at room temperature. A glassy carbon electrode (diameter: 3.0 mm) was first polished with 0.5 mm alumina slurries and then sonicated successively in water, ethanol, and water. A specific volume of catalyst ink made with the Cu NCs/AC composite, ethanol, and Nafion (5%) was deposited onto the cleaned glassy carbon with the loading of 1.27 mg cm-2 , which was utilized as the working electrode. A Pt coil and an Ag/AgCl (in saturated KCl) were used as the counter electrode and reference electrode, respectively. 0.1m KOH was used as the electrolyte.

## Acknowledgements

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Nos. 21575134 and 21275136)

Keywords: copper · detection · electrocatalysis · hydrazine · nanoclusters

- [1] a) Z. Y. Lu, M. Sun, T. H. Xu, Y. J. Li, W. W. Xu, Z. Chang, Y. Ding, X. M. Sun, L. Jiang, [Adv. Mater.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/adma.201500064) 2015, 27, 2361; b) Y. Z. Lu, W. Chen, [Chem. Soc.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c2cs15325d) Rev. 2012, 41[, 3594](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c2cs15325d); c) M. Sun, Z. Lu, L. Luo, Z. Chang, X. Sun, [Nanoscale](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/C5NR07072D) 2016, 8[, 1479](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/C5NR07072D).
- [2] A. Serov, C. Kwak, [Appl. Catal. B](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2010.05.005) 2010, 98, 1.
- [3] P. F. van den Oosterkamp, A. A. Goorse, L. J. M. J. Blomen, [J. Power Sour](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0378-7753(93)80042-N)ces [1993](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0378-7753(93)80042-N), 41, 239.
- [4] G. F. Wang, C. H. Zhang, X. P. He, Z. J. Li, X. J. Zhang, L. Wang, B. Fang, [Electrochim. Acta](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2010.07.053) 2010, 55, 7204.
- [5] L. Cui, C. F. Ji, Z. X. Peng, L. Zhong, C. H. Zhou, L. L. Yan, S. Qu, S. P. Zhang, C. S. Huang, X. H. Qian, Y. F. Xu, [Anal. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ac5007552) 2014, 86, 4611.
- [6] a) H. Wang, Y. J. Ma, R. F. Wang, J. L. Key, V. Linkov, S. Ji, [Chem. Commun.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/C4CC09928A) 2015, 51[, 3570](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/C4CC09928A); b) J. Sanabria-Chinchilla, K. Asazawa, T. Sakamoto, K. Yamada, H. Tanaka, P. Strasser, [J. Am. Chem. Soc.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ja111160r) 2011, 133, 5425; c) G. Feng, Y. Kuang, Y. J. Li, X. M. Sun, [Nano Res.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s12274-015-0836-5) 2015, 8, 3365.
- [7] a) L. Q. Ye, Z. P. Li, H. Y. Qin, J. K. Zhu, B. H. Liu, [J. Power Sources](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2010.08.089) 2011, 196[, 956](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2010.08.089); b) X. Y. Yue, W. X. Yang, M. Xu, X. J. Liu, J. B. Jia, [Talanta](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.talanta.2015.08.002) 2015, 144[, 1296](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.talanta.2015.08.002).
- [8] Y. Y. Meng, X. X. Zou, X. X. Huang, A. Goswami, Z. W. Liu, T. Asefa, [Adv.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/adma.201401969) [Mater.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/adma.201401969) 2014, 26, 6510.
- [9] a) R. C. Jin, [Nanoscale](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/C4NR05794E) 2015, 7, 1549; b) H. F. Qian, Y. Zhu, R. C. Jin, [ACS](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/nn901137h) Nano 2009, 3[, 3795.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/nn901137h)
- [10] L. C. Lee, Y. Zhao, [Acs Catal.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/cs401213c) 2014, 4, 688.
- [11] G. Li, D. E. Jiang, S. Kumar, Y. X. Chen, R. C. Jin, [ACS Catal.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/cs500533h) 2014, 4, 2463.
- [12] D. C. Lim, B. Y. Seo, S. Nho, D. H. Kim, E. M. Hong, J. Y. Lee, S. Y. Park, C. L. Lee, Y. D. Kim, S. Cho, Adv. Energy Mater. 2015, 5, 1500393.
- [13] a) Y. Z. Lu, Y. Y. Jiang, X. H. Gao, W. Chen, [Chem. Commun.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/C4CC01841A) 2014, 50, [8464](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/C4CC01841A); b) W. Chen, S. W. Chen, [Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/anie.200901185) 2009, 48, 4386; [Angew. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ange.200901185) 2009, 121, 4450; c) Y. Z. Lu, W. Chen, [J. Power Sources](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2011.09.033) [2012](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2011.09.033), 197, 107.
- [14] a) W. T. Wei, Y. Z. Lu, W. Chen, S. W. Chen, [J. Am. Chem. Soc.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ja109303z) 2011, 133, [2060](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ja109303z); b) X. H. Gao, Y. Z. Lu, M. M. Liu, S. J. He, W. Chen, [J. Mater. Chem. C](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/C5TC00246J) 2015, 3[, 4050](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/C5TC00246J).
- [15] a) E. Granot, B. Filanovsky, I. Presman, I. Kuras, F. Patolsky, [J. Power Sour](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2011.12.008)ces [2012](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2011.12.008), 204, 116; b) F. Xu, Y. Liu, S. Xie, L. Wang, [Anal. Methods](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/C5AY02465J) 2016, 8[, 316](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/C5AY02465J); c) S. B. Khan, M. Faisal, M. M. Rahman, I. A. Abdel-Latif, A. A. Ismail, K. Akhtar, A. Al-Hajry, A. M. Asiri, K. A. Alamry, [New J. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c3nj40928g) 2013, 37[, 1098](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c3nj40928g); d) H. C. Gao, Y. X. Wang, F. Xiao, C. B. Ching, H. W. Duan, [J.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jp3021276) [Phys. Chem. C](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jp3021276) 2012, 116, 7719.

- [16] a) S. Knoppe, O. A. Wong, S. Malola, H. Hakkinen, T. Burgi, T. Verbiest, C. J. Ackerson, [J. Am. Chem. Soc.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ja500809p) 2014, 136, 4129; b) A. Desireddy, B. E. Conn, J. S. Guo, B. Yoon, R. N. Barnett, B. M. Monahan, K. Kirschbaum, W. P. Griffith, R. L. Whetten, U. Landman, T. P. Bigioni, [Nature](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nature12523) 2013, 501, [399.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nature12523)
- [17] a) S. Kumar, R. C. Jin, [Nanoscale](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c2nr30833a) 2012, 4, 4222; b) Y. Shichibu, Y. Negishi, T. Tsukuda, T. Teranishi, [J. Am. Chem. Soc.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ja053915s) 2005, 127, 13464.
- [18] a) L. M. Tvedte, C. J. Ackerson, [J. Phys. Chem. A](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jp5001946) 2014, 118, 8124; b) Y. X. Chen, C. J. Zeng, C. Liu, K. Kirschbaum, C. Gayathri, R. R. Gil, N. L. Rosi, R. C. Jin, [J. Am. Chem. Soc.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jacs.5b05378) 2015, 137, 10076; c) C. P. Joshi, M. S. Bootharaju, M. J. Alhilaly, O. M. Bakr, [J. Am. Chem. Soc.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jacs.5b07088) 2015, 137, 11578.
- [19] Y. Shichibu, M. Z. Zhang, Y. Kamei, K. Konishi, [J. Am. Chem. Soc.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ja508005x) 2014, 136[, 12892](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ja508005x).
- [20] Z. K. Wu, R. C. Jin, [ACS Nano](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/nn9004999) 2009, 3, 2036.
- [21] J. Huang, S. Zhao, W. Chen, Y. Zhou, X. Yang, Y. Zhu, C. Li, Nanoscale 2015, DOI: [10.1039/C5NR06512G.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/C5NR06512G)
- [22] a) Y. Y. Ma, H. Wang, J. Key, S. Ji, W. Z. Lv, R. F. Wang, [J. Power Sources](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2015.09.087) [2015](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jpowsour.2015.09.087), 300, 344; b) Y. Ding, Y. Wang, L. C. Zhang, H. Zhang, C. M. Li, Y. Lei, [Nanoscale](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/c0nr00773k) 2011, 3, 1149; c) A. V. N. Kumar, J. Joseph, [J. Phys. Chem.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jp508740w) C 2015, 119[, 296](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jp508740w); d) A. Ejaz, M. S. Ahmed, S. Jeon, [Sens. Actuators B](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.snb.2015.07.093) 2015, 221[, 1256](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.snb.2015.07.093).
- [23] a) K. Asazawa, T. Sakamoto, S. Yamaguchi, K. Yamada, H. Fujikawa, H. Tanaka, K. Oguro, [J. Electrochem. Soc.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1149/1.3082129) 2009, 156, B509; b) M. K. Agusta, M. David, H. Nakanishi, H. Kasai, [Surf. Sci.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.susc.2009.11.012) 2010, 604, 245.
- [24] H. J. Zhang, J. S. Huang, H. Q. Hou, T. Y. You, [Electroanalysis](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/elan.200904630) 2009, 21, [1869.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/elan.200904630)
- [25] A. Samadi-Maybodi, S. Ghasemi, H. Ghaffari-Rad, [Sens. Actuators B](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.snb.2015.05.127) 2015, 220[, 627.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.snb.2015.05.127)
- [26] X. B. Ji, C. E. Banks, A. F. Holloway, K. Jurkschat, C. A. Thorogood, G. G. Wildgoose, R. G. Compton, [Electroanalysis](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/elan.200603681) 2006, 18, 2481.
- [27] D. Jayasri, S. S. Narayanan, [J. Hazard. Mater.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jhazmat.2006.10.038) 2007, 144, 348.
- [28] C. Batchelor-McAuley, C. E. Banks, A. O. Simm, T. G. J. Jones, R. G. Compton, [Analyst](http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/B513751A) 2006, 131, 106.
- [29] S. Kumar, M. D. Bolan, T. P. Bigioni, [J. Am. Chem. Soc.](http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/ja105836b) 2010, 132, 13141.

Manuscript received: January 22, 2016 Accepted Article published: February 25, 2016 Final Article published: && &&, 2016

## ARTICLES

X. Gao, C. Du, C. Zhang, W. Chen\*

&& – &&

Serve and protect: Cu7(SR)3 nanoclusters are successfully synthesized and used as electrocatalysts towards the oxidation and detection of hydrazine.