---
source: Hu 等 - 2023 - Cooperative Ni(Co)‐Ru‐P Sites Activate Dehydrogenation for Hydrazine Oxidation Assisting Self‐powere.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 70.322s
generated: 2026-01-10T07:24:06.171154Z
---

### **Forschungsartikel**

Hydrogen Evolution Very Important Paper

Zitierweise: Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2023, 62, e202308800 doi.org/10.1002/anie.202308800

# Cooperative Ni(Co)-Ru-P Sites Activate Dehydrogenation for Hydrazine Oxidation Assisting Self-powered H<sub>2</sub> Production

Yanmin Hu<sup>+</sup>, Tingting Chao<sup>+</sup>, Yapeng Li<sup>+</sup>, Peigen Liu<sup>+</sup>, Tonghui Zhao, Ge Yu, Cai Chen, Xiao Liang, Huile Jin, Shuwen Niu,\* Wei Chen,\* Dingsheng Wang,\* and Yadong Li

**Abstract:** Water electrolysis for H<sub>2</sub> production is restricted by the sluggish oxygen evolution reaction (OER). Using the thermodynamically more favorable hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR) to replace OER has attracted ever-growing attention. Herein, we report a twisted NiCoP nanowire array immobilized with Ru single atoms (Ru<sub>1</sub>-NiCoP) as superior bifunctional electrocatalyst toward both HzOR and hydrogen evolution reaction (HER), realizing an ultralow working potential of -60 mV and overpotential of 32 mV for a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively. Inspiringly, two-electrode electrolyzer based on overall hydrazine splitting (OHzS) demonstrates outstanding activity with a record-high current density of 522 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at cell voltage of 0.3 V. DFT calculations elucidate the cooperative Ni(Co)-Ru-P sites in Ru<sub>1</sub>-NiCoP optimize H\* adsorption, and enhance adsorption of \*N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>2</sub> to significantly lower the energy barrier for hydrazine dehydrogenation. Moreover, a self-powered H<sub>2</sub> production system utilizing OHzS device driven by direct hydrazine fuel cell (DHzFC) achieve a satisfactory rate of  $24.0 \text{ mol } h^{-1} m^{-2}$ .

#### Introduction

Hydrogen, with high energy density and zero carbon emission, has been considered as the most promising energy resource to replace traditional fossil fuels in the future.<sup>[1,2]</sup> Notably, water electrolysis driven by renewable energy is an

[\*] Y. Hu, T. Chao, Y. Li, T. Zhao, H. Jin, S. Niu, W. Chen Key Laboratory of Carbon Materials of Zhejiang Province, College of Chemistry and Materials Engineering, Wenzhou University Wenzhou 325035 (China) E-mail: niusw@ustc.edu.cn

Y. Hu, T. Chao, P. Liu, G. Yu, C. Chen, S. Niu Center of Advanced Nanocatalysis (CAN), Department of Applied Chemistry, Hefei National Laboratory for Physical Sciences at the Microscale, University of Science and Technology of China Hefei, Anhui 230026 (China)

X. Liang, D. Wang, Y. Li Department of Chemistry, Tsinghua University Beijing (China) E-mail: wangdingsheng@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn

[+] These authors contributed equally to this work.

efficient and eco-friendly strategy to generate high-purity hydrogen.[3-6] However, the sluggish reaction kinetics of oxygen evolution reaction [OER, 1.23 V vs. reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE)] at the anode have seriously hindered the development and practical application of water splitting.<sup>[7,8]</sup> By now, electrocatalytic oxidation of thermodynamically favorable small molecules, such as alcohol, amine, glucose, urea, sulfion and hydrazine, has been designed to replace OER for energy-saving H<sub>2</sub> production. [9-15] Among them, hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR) has attracted extensive attention because of the much lower theoretical potential  $(N_2H_4 + 4OH^- = N_2 + 4H_2O, -0.33 \text{ V vs. RHE})$  and higher safety even in membrane-free electrolyzer as N2 is the only byproduct. [16-19] So far, considerable endeavors have been dedicated to exploiting advanced electrocatalysts based on non-precious metals for HzOR, such as transition metal sulfides, phosphides and nitrides. [20-22] However, non-precious metals have a tendency to promote the cleavage of N-N bonds, resulting in incomplete oxidation of hydrazine and the undesired formation of NH<sub>3</sub> as a byproduct. [23] In addition, most reported catalysts show optimal performance exclusively for the half-cell reaction involved in overall hydrazine splitting. Developing highly efficient, yet costeffective bifunctional electrocatalysts for both HzOR and hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) is crucial for the advancement of electrolysis system, but remains a challenge.

Recently, Ru species have been explored to facilitate HzOR by accelerating dehydrogenation kinetics and Ru can be an ideal HER candidate with hydrogen adsorption energy similar to Pt. [24-26] For example. Li et al. found RuP<sub>2</sub> nanoparticle decorated carbon microsheets can possess superior activity toward both HzOR and HER, and the output in two-electrode electrolyzer can reach 522 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at 1.0 V.[27] However, the excessive utilization of precious metal could be critical barrier to practical applications. As such, it is imperative to develop effective strategies to yield exceptional bifunctional catalysts while ensuring optimal utilization of the precious metal. Generally, atomically dispersed noble-metals are favorable to maximize atom utilization efficiency. [28-30] Additionally, by fine-tuning the interfacial interaction between single atoms and the support, the activity of the catalyst can be significantly enhanced. [31-33] Nevertheless, single-atom materials have rarely been explored to optimize HzOR. In this regard, the investigation of single-atom catalysts (SACs) for electrochemical HzOR with the aim of increasing efficiency shows great promise. More importantly, Single-atom catalysts, featuring simple structure and high homogeneity, are highly suitable for

wchen@wzu.edu.cn

*Angewandte*

investigating the relationship between atomic structure and catalytic performance,[34–36] which in turn facilitates rational design of efficient catalysts at the atomic level.

Herein we construct atomic Ni(Co) Ru P interfacial sites on matrix of NiCoP nanowire arrays (NWAs) with Ru single atoms (Ru1 NiCoP). Remarkably, the Ru1 NiCoP demonstrated superior electrocatalytic activity toward HzOR with an ultrasmall working potential of 60 mV to reach a current density of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> in 1.0 M KOH/0.3 M N2H4 electrolyte. As for HER, it only requires an ultralow overpotential of 32 mV to generate 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> in 1.0 M KOH, which is comparable to benchmark Pt/C. Furthermore, a two-electrode electrolyzer based on OHzS utilizing the Ru1 NiCoP as both anode and cathode catalysts can produce 522 mAcm <sup>2</sup> under a cell voltage of 0.3 V, indicating the significant potential for energy saving H2 production compared to the overall water splitting (OWS) system. The density functional theory (DFT) calculations decipher that the introduction of Ru sites significantly lower vacant d band center of NiCoP, strengthening adsorption ability toward \*N2H2 and decreasing the reaction energy barrier, thus boosting the HzOR activity. Impressively, an innovative self-powered hydrogen production system, employing an OHzS electrolyzer powered by DHzFC, achieves a promising H2 generation rate of 24.0 molh 1m <sup>2</sup> without external electricity supply.

#### *Results and Discussion*

The synthetic process of Ru SAC on NiCoP nanowire arrays (Ru1 NiCoP) is illustrated in Figure 1a. Firstly, NiCoP nanowire arrays are fabricated by growing NiCo LDH arrays on Ni foam through a simple hydrothermal method (Figure S1), followed by phosphorization at 300 °C using NaH2PO2 as P source. The method of phosphidation at a low temperature could induce abundant defects or vacancies on the NiCoP NWAs, creating favorable sites for the anchoring of atomically dispersed Ru. Subsequently, the NiCoP substrate is impregnated in RuCl3 solution and then annealed in Ar atmosphere to form Ru1 NiCoP. The separation of substrate construction and SAC deposition is conducive to the dispersion of Ru atoms on the outermost surface of NiCoP substrate, thus maximizing the utilization of Ru atoms.

Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images demonstrate the typical well-arrayed nanowire morphology of NiCoP grown on Ni foam electrode (Figure S2). From the XRD pattern in Figure S3, the diffraction peaks at 41.0°, 44.9°, 47.6°, and 54.4° correspond well to the (111), (201), (210), and (300) planes of NiCoP. After loading with Ru species, the wire shape of NiCoP was retained but became twisted, as shown from SEM image in Figure 1b. The X-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern of Ru1 NiCoP matches well with that of NiCoP, and no peaks assigned to Ru or RuP appears (Figure S3). TEM image reveals the Ru1 NiCoP possess porous wire-like structure, which is composed of interconnected nanoparticles (Figure 1c). Furthermore, high angle annular darkfield scanning TEM (HAADF-STEM) analysis is provided to gain insight into atomic structure of Ru1 NiCoP. As shown in Figure 1d, the lattice fringe with interplanar distance of 0.22 nm is attributed to the (111) plane of NiCoP (Figure S4). The isolated bright dots (highlighted by red circles) demonstrate the individual dispersion of Ru atoms on the NiCoP surface, without obvious appearance of Ru nanoparticles. The intensity line profile (along yellow rectangle) and intensity surface profile (along yellow square) further confirmed the atomic isolation of Ru atoms on the NiCoP surface with dramatical intensity contrast (Figure 1e). The STEM-EDX elemental mappings reveal the uniform distribution of Ru over the NiCoP nanowires without any aggregated Ru species (Figure 1f). Notably, the mass content of Ru in Ru1 NiCoP is measured to be 0.9 wt.% by inductively coupled plasma and atomic emission spectrum (ICP-AES).

The surface chemical composition and state of Ru1 NiCoP are explored via X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) (Figure S6). The Ru 3p spectra analysis of Ru1 NiCoP relative to NiCoP reconfirmed the existence of Ru in the Ru1 NiCoP. The Ru 3p spectra exhibits two peaks centered at 461.7 eV for Ru 3p3/2 and 483.2 eV for Ru 3p1/2 (Figure 1g), indicating Ru atoms are positively charged with a valence state of δ<sup>+</sup> (0*<*δ*<*3) due to the electronic interaction between Ru atoms and support.[37] Figure 2a presents the high-resolution Ni 2p spectrum of NiCoP and Ru1 NiCoP, displaying two sets of doublet peaks corresponding to Ni 2p3/2 and Ni 2p1/2. In the case of pristine NiCoP, the peaks observed at 853.4 eV and 872.8 eV in the Ni 2p3/2 and Ni 2p1/2 spectra, respectively, can be attributed to Ni<sup>δ</sup><sup>+</sup> states originating from Ni P compounds. On the other hand, the binding energies at 857.1 eV and 875.0 eV are associated with oxidized Ni species. Likewise, in Figure 2b, the peaks observed at 778.8 eV (2p3/2) and 796.3 eV (2p1/2) in the Co 2p region can be assigned to Co<sup>δ</sup><sup>+</sup> states (Co P). The peaks centered at 782.2 eV and 798.4 eV are linked to Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> species. It is worth noting that the binding energies of Ni 2p in the Ru1 NiCoP exhibited negative shifts of 0.10 eV compared with that of the NiCoP counterpart. Meanwhile, the main peaks of Co 2p show negative shifts of 0.18 eV (Figure 2b), suggesting a decreased valence state of Ni and Co after the introduction of Ru atoms. The above results confirm that the introduction of high-valence Ru ions in the NiCoP matrix led to localized charge redistribution, which caused a decrease in the oxidation state of nearby Ni and Co ions to maintain charge balance. To further elucidate the electronic structure and local coordination environment of Ru1 NiCoP, X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) nearedge structure characterization was employed. The white line (WL) intensity in Figure 2c reflects the oxidation state of Ru species. It is clear that the WL intensities of Ru1 NiCoP in Ru *K*-edge spectrum locates between that of RuCl3 and Ru foil, indicating the oxidation state of Ru in Ru1 NiCoP is between 0 and +3, in agreement with the XPS analysis. By fitting the Ru oxidation state as a function of Ru K-edge energy shift, the average valence state of Ru in the Ru1 NiCoP was calculated to be approximately +1.5 (Figure 2d). The Fourier transforms of the extended X-ray

*Figure 1.* (a) Schematic illustration of the synthesis of Ru1 NiCoP NWAs. (b) SEM and (c) HRTEM image of the Ru1 NiCoP NWAs. (d) HAADF-STEM image of the Ru1 NiCoP NWAs. Ru single atoms are highlighted by red circles. (e) The intensity line profile taken along yellow rectangle and intensity surface profile taken along yellow square in HAADF-STEM image. (f) HAADF-STEM image of the Ru1 NiCoP NWAs and the corresponding STEM-EDX elemental mapping. (g) XPS spectra of Ru 3p for the Ru1 NiCoP NWAs and RuO2.

absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra of Ru *K*-edge are plotted in Figure 2e to probe the local atomic environment of Ru. For Ru1 NiCoP, the main FT peak at �1.81 Å corresponds to the backscattering of Ru P. Meanwhile, the small peak at 2.43 Å can be attributed to the second shell of Ru Ni/Co. In contrast to the EXAFS spectra of Ru foil and RuO2, Ru Ru coordination around 2.35 Å and 3.19 Å were not observed in that of Ru1 NiCoP, verifying the atomic dispersion of Ru species. The quantitative structural parameters extracted from the EXAFS fitting (Figure 2f, Table S1) suggested that the isolated Ru atoms were coordinated by approximately four P atoms and two Ni/Co atoms with an average bond length of 2.72 Å, consistent with the theoretical calculation model (Figure S21). Based on the XAS results, a Ni(Co)2 Ru P4 atomic interface model was proposed. The wavelet transform (WT)-EXAFS with high resolution in both *k* and R spaces are further carried out to reveal the atomic configuration of Ru atoms in Ru1 NiCoP compared with Ru foil and RuO2. The WT contour plot of Ru1 NiCoP exhibits two characteristic regions: a first shell domain for Ru P scattering with a local maximum at k= 5.0 Å <sup>1</sup> and a second shell domain at k=9.0 Å <sup>1</sup> (Figure 2g), which was ascribed to the Ru Ni/Co pair, and no other signals derived from Ru Ru contributions in Ru foil and RuO2 are observed. WT-EXAFS analysis also demonstrates that the Ru is atomically dispersed in the Ru1 NiCoP.

The electrocatalytic HzOR performance of the Ru1 NiCoP was evaluated in a typical three electrode configuration compared with commercial Pt/C and Ru/C catalysts (Figure S7). The linear sweep voltammetry (LSV)

Figure 2. XPS spectra of (a) Ni 2p and (b) Co 2p for the Ru<sub>1</sub>—NiCoP and NiCoP. (c) Ru K-edge XANES spectra and (d) Linear fitting curve of valence state derived from corresponding Ru K-edge XANES spectra. (e) the  $k^2$ -weighted  $\chi(k)$ -function of the EXAFS spectra for Ru<sub>1</sub>—NiCoP, Ru foil, RuO<sub>2</sub> and RuCl<sub>3</sub>. (f) FT-EXAFS fitting curves of Ru<sub>1</sub>—NiCoP. (g) Wavelet transform of Ru K-edge EXAFS data for Ru<sub>1</sub>—NiCoP, Ru foil, RuO<sub>2</sub> and RuCl<sub>3</sub>.

curves of Ru<sub>1</sub>-NiCoP were measured in 1.0 M KOH electrolyte with different N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> concentrations under Ohmic drop correction (Figure 3a). It can be clearly seen from LSV curves that there is no oxidation current within the potential window of -0.1–0.3 V when the electrolyte is 1.0 M KOH without N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub>. The anode current density increased rapidly with the addition of 0.1 M of N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> and rised continuously with the increased concentration from 0.1 M to 0.3 M, suggesting the catalytic potential of Ru<sub>1</sub>-NiCoP toward HzOR. Specifically, the Ru<sub>1</sub>-NiCoP required ultralow potential of -60 mV to reach current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> in 1.0 M of KOH/0.3 M of N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> electrolyte, which is 158 mV lower than that of Pt/C (Figure 3b). Compared to recently reported electrocatalysts, Ru<sub>1</sub>-NiCoP stands out as an excellent candidate for HzOR catalysis with its remarkable overpotential of -60 mV at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> (Table S2). Impressively, the working potentials of Ru<sub>1</sub>-NiCoP to achieve 100, 500 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> is only 10 and 104 mV, which outperforms the NiCoP (40 and 227 mV), Pt/ C (174 and 435 mV) and Ru/C (52 and 524 mV). Further-

more, the investigation of N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> concentrations below 10 mM was conducted to assess its potential for detecting the pollutant hydrazine in wastewater (Figure S8). The relevant calibration curve demonstrates a linear relationship between the oxidation current and hydrazine concentration, with a detection limit of 29 µM, highlighting the potential of Ru<sub>1</sub>-NiCoP as an electrochemical sensor for hydrazine detection. In addition, as shown in Figure 3c, the HzOR activity of Ru<sub>1</sub>-NiCoP shows negligible change with scan rates ranging from 10 to 90 mV s<sup>-1</sup>, indicating the efficient charge and mass transfer during the catalytic processes. Ru<sub>1</sub>-NiCoP exhibits the lowest charge transfer resistance  $(R_{\rm ct})$  of 5.9  $\Omega$  compared with NiCoP (6.7  $\Omega$ ), commercial Pt/ C (12.1  $\Omega$ ) and Ru/C catalysts (9.5  $\Omega$ ), further demonstrating that Ru<sub>1</sub>-NiCoP possesses the best charge transfer efficiency (Figure S9). Tafel slopes were obtained from HzOR LSV curve analysis to assess the catalytic kinetics of the electrocatalyst (Figure 3d). The Tafel slope of Ru<sub>1</sub>-NiCoP is 19.3 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, which is lower than those of NiCoP  $(34.2 \text{ mV} \text{dec}^{-1})$ . Pt/C  $(36.8 \text{ mV} \text{dec}^{-1})$ . Ru/C  $(30.9 \text{ mV} \text{dec}^{-1})$  1521373, 2023, 35, Downloaded from https://onlinelbray.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202308800 by University of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/0/12026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Co

*Figure 3.* (a) HzOR polarization curves of Ru1 NiCoP NWAs in 1.0 M KOH with different concentrations of hydrazine. (b) HzOR LSV curves of Ru1 NiCoP NWAs, NiCoP NWAs, bare Ni foam, commercial Pt/C and Ru/C. (c) HzOR LSV curves of Ru1 NiCoP NWAs with different scan rates, and the inset shows the corresponding current density at 0.1 V vs. RHE for different scan rates. (d) The Tafel plots of above samples. (e) The compared working potentials at 2 Amg <sup>1</sup> and mass activity at the working potential of 150 mV. (f) HzOR LSV curves after 5,000 and 10,000 cycles, respectively. Inset is the chronoamperometry test of Ru1 NiCoP NWAs recorded at 15 mV for 20 h. (g) LSV curves and (h) the corresponding Tafel plots of Ru1 NiCoP NWAs, NiCoP NWAs, bare Ni foam, commercial Pt/C and Ru/C toward HER 1.0 M KOH. (i) The chronoamperometry test of Ru1 NiCoP NWAs recorded at the overpotential of 68 mV.

and bare Ni foam (87.6 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ), indicating the improved catalytic kinetics towards HzOR. It is noteworthy that the mass activity of Ru1 NiCoP is up to 15.5 Amg <sup>1</sup> at working potential of 150 mV (Figure 3e and Figure S10), which is 38.7 and 6.5 times larger than those of commercial Pt/C (0.4 Amg <sup>1</sup> ) and Ru/C catalysts (2.4 Amg <sup>1</sup> ), respectively. In addition, the electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) of the catalysts can be assessed using the doublelayer capacitor (Cdl) based on a linear correlation between Cdl and ECSA. As shown in Figure S11–12, the Ru1 NiCoP exhibits a Cdl value of 27.8 mFcm <sup>2</sup> , which is larger than those of NiCoP (23.4 mFcm <sup>2</sup> ), commercial Pt/C (18.4 mFcm <sup>2</sup> ) and Ru/C (21.1 mFcm <sup>2</sup> ), demonstrating that the Ru1 NiCoP possesses more abundant accessible active sites. Next, the electrochemical durability of Ru1 NiCoP was investigated using accelerated deterioration tests (ADT). The working potential at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> slightly increased from 60 mV to 55 mV after 5,000 cycles and then to 53 mV after 10,000 cycles (Figure 3f). The chronoamperometry test of Ru1 NiCoP at current density of 40 mAcm <sup>2</sup> for 20 h is shown in the inset of Figure 3f, where 96.3% current density retention can be observed, exhibiting the excellent stability of Ru1 NiCoP. The Ru1 NiCoP maintains its well-arrayed nanowire morphology after the long-term HzOR durability test, as shown in Figure S13, indicating its structural robustness for electrochemical reaction. The steady NiCoP structure is further confirmed by the identical XRD patterns between the initial and post-catalytic samples.

The electrochemical HER activity of the Ru1 NiCoP was then measured in 1.0 M KOH. The LSV curves of Ru1 NiCoP and control samples were illustrated in Figure 3g. The Ru1 NiCoP merely required an ultralow overpotential of 32 mV to afford the current density of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , which is comparable with the state-of-the-art Pt/C catalyst (37 mV) and much better than that of

15213757, 2023, 35, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202308800 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

*Angewandte*

commercial Ru/C (44 mV), NiCoP (95 mV) and bare Ni foam (146 mV). Moreover, the mass activity normalized by the noble metal loading further demonstrates the superiority of Ru1 NiCoP (1.64 Amg <sup>1</sup> @η= 100 mV) than those of Pt/ C (0.51 Amg <sup>1</sup> @η=100 mV) and Ru/C catalysts (0.35 Amg <sup>1</sup> @η=100 mV, Figure S14). The Tafel slope of Ru1 NiCoP (39.5 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ) is much smaller than those of Ru/C (78.1 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ), NiCoP (93.1 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ), bare Ni foam (132.4 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ) and similar to that of Pt/C catalyst (41 mVdec <sup>1</sup> ), implying the excellent reaction kinetics and a Volmer–Tafel mechanism for HER process (Figure 3h). As shown in the Nyquist plots (Figure S15), the Ru1 NiCoP owns the minimal *R*ct of 3.5 Ω compared with NiCoP (4.6 Ω), Ru/C (5.9 Ω) and Pt/C catalyst (7.3 Ω), revealing the improved interfacial charge transfer kinetics. Importantly, the turnover frequency (TOF) value of Ru1 NiCoP at 150 mV is 1.99 s 1 , considerably higher than those of Pt/C (0.86 s 1 ) and Ru/C catalysts (0.32 s 1 , Figure S16). The electrochemical stability assessed by accelerated cyclic voltammogram test of Ru1 NiCoP was shown in Figure S17. The overpotential of Ru1 NiCoP at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> shows negligible attenuation after 5,000 cycles and only decays by 4 mV after 10,000 cycles. Meanwhile, the long-term durability was further measured by the chronoamperometry test at current density of 30 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , where the current density only decreased by 5% after at least 20 hours (Figure 3i). The morphology and corresponding XRD patterns of the post-catalytic sample indicate that the nanowire arrays of Ru1 NiCoP remained unchanged with the same phosphide structure before and after the HER test (Figure S18), which suggests that the catalyst is highly durable and can withstand the HER process without undergoing any significant alterations.

The comparing LSV curves of Ru1 NiCoP and Pt/C for HzOR/HER couple in 1.0 M KOH/0.3 M N2H4 were shown in Figure 4a. The potential gap of HzOR/HER couple to reach 100 mA/cm <sup>2</sup> for Ru1 NiCoP is as low as 122 mV, which is 227 mV smaller than that of Pt/C. Inspired by the excellent bifunctional performance in both HzOR and HER, a two-electrode electrolyzer based on OHzS was assembled with Ru1 NiCoP electrodes to demonstrate its potential applications for energy-saving H2 production (Figure 4b). The polarization curves in Figure 4c clearly illustrate the performance of Ru1 NiCoP is significantly better than that of Pt/C in the OHzS system. Specifically, the Ru1 NiCoP only required ultralow cell voltage of 90 mV to reach current density of 50 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , which is much lower than those of Pt/C (201 mV) and Ru/C (167 mV, Figure S19). Strikingly, Ru1 NiCoP can achieve an ultrahigh current density of 522 mAcm <sup>2</sup> at cell voltage of 0.3 V, superior to most reported electrocatalysts for energy-saving H2 production system. Moreover, the compared polarization curves of OHzS and OWS are shown in Figure 4d, suggesting a dramatic reduction of electric consumption using hydrazine oxidation-assisted H2 production (Figure S20). As displayed in Figure 4e, OHzS system requires cell voltages of merely 90 mV to reach current densities of 50 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , which is 1.57 V lower than that of OWS, as well as the same smaller cell voltages of 140, 170, 193 mV to reach the current densities of 100, 150, and 200 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , respectively, indicat-

*Figure 4.* (a) LSV curves of Ru1 NiCoP and Pt/C for HER/HzOR couple in 1.0 M KOH with 0.3 M N2H4 solution. (b) Schematic illustration of the two-electrode membrane-free electrolyzer based on OHzS. (c) Comparing polarization curves of Ru1 NiCoPj jRu1 NiCoP and Pt/Cj jPt/C couples for OHzS. (d) Comparing LSV curves of Ru1 NiCoPj jRu1 NiCoP couples for OWS and OHzS. (e) Comparison of the cell voltages at current densities of 50, 100, 150 and 200 mAcm <sup>2</sup> for OWS and OHzS. (f) The chronoamperometry test of Ru1 NiCoP for OHzS.

*Angewandte*

ing great thermodynamic advantage of OHzS. Besides, the chronoamperometry test of Ru1 NiCoP shows negligible change at current density of 40 mAcm <sup>2</sup> after 30 h electrolysis (Figure 4f), exhibiting the outstanding stability in OHzS system.

Given the excellent catalytic activity and stability of Ru1 NiCoP for HzOR, it can be considered as an anode coupled with Pt/C cathode in direct hydrazine fuel cell (DHzFC), where N2H4 is oxidized to N2 and O2 is reduced to H2O. As shown in Figure 5b, the home-made DHzFC assembled with Ru1 NiCoPj jPt/C exhibited a high opencircuit voltage of 0.93 V and a remarkable maximal power density (Pmax) of 176 mWcm <sup>2</sup> was achieved at a cell voltage of 0.40 V at room temperature, surpassing the performance of recently published results under similar conditions. Specifically, the high Pmax of 176 mWcm <sup>2</sup> attained by Ru1 NiCoPj jPt/C is approximately three to four times higher than that of previously reported DHzFCs operating at ambient temperature (Figure 5c). The ladder-like discharge curves of Ru1 NiCoP at various current densities demonstrate its exceptional cyclic stability, even under large current densities (Figure 5d), highlighting its significant potential for practical applications. Building upon the impressive performance of Ru1 NiCoP in OHzS and DHzFC, an innovative self-powered hydrogen production system was integrated by driving the OHzS electrolyzer with DHzFC as power supply, which relies solely on hydrazine as the liquid fuel (Figure 5a). Besides, this DHzFC system can maintain the current density of 40 mAcm <sup>2</sup> with acceptable stability for a continuous 4-hour test, taking into account the hydrazine consumption (Figure S21). The gas production analysis depicted in Figure 5e confirms that our system achieves a noteworthy hydrogen production rate of 24.0 molh 1m <sup>2</sup> at ambient temperature, which is comparable to or even surpasses the rates reported by other selfpowered hydrogen production systems,[38–39] showcasing its promising capabilities for achieving highly efficient hydrogen generation.

To unveil the modulation essence of Ru-SA dopants in NiCoP for alkaline electrocatalytic HER and HzOR at atomic level, density functional theory (DFT) calculations were further conducted. Based on the experimental characterizations (HAADF-STEM, XRD and EXAFS), a simplified model of Ru1 NiCoP (111) surfaces were built as presented in Figure S22. The different sites were first considered to infer the most possible Ru SA in NiCoP surface. The most energy favorable structure of Ru1 NiCoP is the substitution of Ni atom with Ru, where the Ru P coordination number is four (Figure S23), matching well with the quantitative fitting results of experimental Ru kedge EXAFS data in Figure 2f. To clearly visualize the effect of Ru-SA incorporation on the electron density of the surrounding atoms, the charge density difference of Ru-SA on NiCoP is shown in Figure 6a. Impressively, the Ru-SA shows the obviously charge depletion, indicating the electron transfer from Ru-SA to the surrounding Ni/Co and P atoms. The density of states (DOS) analysis reveals that the distribution of d electron of NiCoP is dramatically modu-

*Figure 5.* (a) Schematic illustration of a self-powered hydrogen production system integrated by driving the OHzS electrolyzer with DHzFC as power supply. (b) Discharge polarization curve and power density plot of DHzFC with Ru1 NiCoP anode and Pt/C cathode. (c) Comparison of peak power density of the Ru1 NiCoP-based DHzFC with the literature reported. (d) Discharge plateaus of Ru1 NiCoP at various current densities from 0 to 600 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . (e) Generated amounts of H2 from the self-powered H2 production system.

*Figure 6.* (a) Charge density difference of Ru1 NiCoP, where the isosurface value is set to be 0.006 eVÅ <sup>3</sup> . (b) The PDOS plots of d-band in NiCoP and Ru1 NiCoP as well as the corresponding d-band center. (c) The calculated free energy profiles for H adsorption on NiCoP and Ru1 NiCoP. The reaction pathways with structural configurations and corresponding free energy profiles of HzOR on the (d and f) Ru1 NiCoP and (e and f) NiCoP surfaces, respectively. (g) Charge density difference of NiCoP and Ru1 NiCoP with the adsorption of HNNH\*, where the isosurface value is set to be 0.006 eVÅ <sup>3</sup> .

lated by Ru-SA. Specifically, the electronic state at Fermi level is distinctly increased after Ru-SA incorporation, which could facilitate electron transportation between the active sites and adsorbents. In addition, the d-band center analysis reveals that the Ru-SA incorporation induces the dband center farther away from the Fermi level in Ru1 NiCoP ( 1.10 eV) compared to that in NiCoP ( 1.06 eV), which implies the antibonding states are filled with more electrons after Ru-SA doping and improves the H adsorption/desorption behavior (Figure 6b).[40] The highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of H2O and N2Hx (*x*=0–4) predominantly composed of p character with the lone pair electrons filling, could interact directly with the vacant d orbital of the surficial metal sites. Therefore, the energy level of these vacant orbital is vital for electronic coupling. The high vacant d band center (2.78 eV) in the pristine NiCoP obstructs the interaction with H2O and N2Hx, which is much lowered by the Ru intervention in Ru1 NiCoP (2.58 eV). Taken together, all these geometric and electronic structural results consistently suggest that the d electron distribution and energy level of NiCoP can be

effectively manipulated by Ru-SA for efficient electrocatalytic HER and HzOR.

To further reveal the effect of Ru SA on the improved HER and HzOR process of NiCoP, the adsorption/desorption of the main reactive species (H2O, N2H4) and intermediates (H and N2Hx) are calculated. In view of the fact that the water adsorption and the consequently generated hydrogen desorption on the catalyst surface have decisive effects on the alkaline HER, we systematically analyze the H2O and H adsorption ability of NiCoP and Ru1 NiCoP.[41] As shown in Figure S24, NiCoP surface exhibits a lower water adsorption energy with the value of 0.40 eV, which is much improved by Ru SA intervention with the higher water energy of 0.68 eV. Subsequently, the H\* combines and further produces H2 to complete the whole alkaline HER process. Impressively, the free energy of adsorption H (ΔGH\*) on both P (0.29 eV) and metal hollow site ( 0.74 eV) in NiCoP surface are optimized by Ru-SA in Ru1 NiCoP (P, 0.23 eV; metal hollow, 0.71 eV; Figure 6c and Figure S25–26), suggesting the accelerated hydrogen evolution kinetics on Ru1 NiCoP surface, consistent with

the improved alkaline HER activity of NiCoP. Additionally, the HzOR process for NiCoP and Ru1 NiCoP are further calculated. Figure 6d–f illustrates the relaxed geometric structure with N2Hx adsorption and the Gibbs free energy profiles for the stepwise dehydrogenation process from N2H4 to N2, respectively. Interestingly, the adsorption of N2H4 is both thermodynamically exothermic process on the surface of NiCoP and Ru1 NiCoP with the adsorption free energy of 0.63 and 0.52 eV, respectively. Notably, the dehydrogenation of \*HNNH2 to \*N2H2 is the rate determining step (RDS) for NiCoP surface with the energy barrier of 1.28 eV due to the weak adsorption of NiCoP toward the \*N2H2 intermediate. Impressively, the Ru1 NiCoP suffers from the same RDS, but with a much lower energy barrier of 0.16 eV, due to the enhanced adsorption ability toward \*N2H2 intermediate. To directly visualize the interaction of \*N2H2 intermediate with the studied surfaces, the charge density difference with \*N2H2 adsorption are further analyzed. As shown in Figure 6g, the more electron transfer is clearly observed between the \*N2H2 and Ru1 NiCoP surface than that of NiCoP, indicating a much strong affinity to \*N2H2.

#### *Conclusion*

In summary, we present a rationally designed synthesis of atomically dispersed Ni(Co)-Ru P interface sites on NiCoP matrix immobilized with Ru single atoms, which exhibits excellent bifunctional activity towards both HzOR and HER in alkaline electrolyte. Specifically, it can reach the current density of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> at an ultralow working potential of 60 mV for HzOR in 1.0 M KOH/0.3 M N2H4 and just needs an ultrasmall overpotential of 32 mV for HER in 1.0 M KOH, respectively. Remarkably, the OHzS system using Ru1 NiCoP as both anode and cathode catalysts only requires an ultrasmall cell voltage of 90 mV to reach the current density of 50 mAcm <sup>2</sup> and obtain the ultrahigh current density of 522 mAcm <sup>2</sup> at the small voltage of 0.3 V. DFT calculations reveal that the incorporation of Ru atomic sites into NiCoP optimized H\* adsorption and causes a notable reduction in the vacant d band center, leading to an enhancement of adsorption capability towards \*N2H2 and a consequent decrease in the energy barrier for the HzOR, thereby elevating the activity of HzOR. Remarkably, an OHzS electrolyzer powered by DHzFC enables a selfpowered hydrogen production system with a satisfactory rate of 24.0 molh <sup>1</sup> m <sup>2</sup> . Our work enlightens a groundbreaking approach to achieve energy-efficient hydrogen production while also shedding light on the possibilities for designing highly efficient bifunctional electrocatalysts with broader applications.

#### *Acknowledgements*

This work was supported by the National Key R&D Program of China (2018YFA0702003), the National Natural Science Foundation of China (21671152, 22171157, 21890383 and 21971137), and the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities. We thank the the BL14W1 station of Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility (SSRF) measurement for providing beam time to support this project.

#### *Conflict of Interest*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

### *Data Availability Statement*

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

**Keywords:** Dehydrogenation **·** Hydrazine Oxidation Reaction **·** Interfacial Sites **·** Overall Hydrazine Splitting **·** Single-Atom Catalyst

- [1] N. Du, C. Roy, R. Peach, M. Turnbull, S. Thiele, C. Bock, *Chem. Rev.* **2022**, *122*, [11830–11895](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.1c00854).
- [2] S. Chu, A. Majumdar, *Nature* **2012**, *488*, [294–303](https://doi.org/10.1038/nature11475).
- [3] J. Zhu, L. Hu, P. Zhao, L. Y. S. Lee, K. Y. Wong, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.9b00248) Rev.* **2020**, *120*, [851–918](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.9b00248).
- [4] B. You, Y. Sun, *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2018**, *51*, [1571–1580](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.accounts.8b00002).
- [5] T. Chao, X. Luo, W. Chen, B. Jiang, J. Ge, Y. Lin, G. Wu, X. Wang, Y. Hu, Z. Zhuang, Y. Wu, X. Hong, Y. Li, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201709803) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, [16047–16051](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201709803).
- [6] G. Wu, X. Han, J. Cai, P. Yin, P. Cui, X. Zheng, H. Li, C. Chen, G. Wang, X. Hong, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 4200.
- [7] Y. Yao, S. Hu, W. Chen, Z. Q. Huang, W. Wei, T. Yao, R. Liu, K. Zang, X. Wang, G. Wu, W. Yuan, T. Yuan, B. Zhu, W. Liu, Z. Li, D. He, Z. Xue, Y. Wang, X. Zheng, J. Dong, C. R. Chang, Y. Chen, X. Hong, J. Luo, S. Wei, W. X. Li, P. Strasser, Y. Wu, Y. Li, *Nat. Catal.* **2019**, *2*, [304–313](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-019-0246-2).
- [8] Y. Hu, X. Luo, G. Wu, T. Chao, Z. Li, Y. Qu, H. Li, Y. Wu, B. Jiang, X. Hong, *ACS Appl. Mater. [Interfaces](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.9b16492)* **2019**, *11*, 42298– [42304](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.9b16492).
- [9] K. Yin, Y. Chao, F. Lv, L. Tao, W. Zhang, S. Lu, M. Li, Q. Zhang, L. Gu, H. Li, S. Guo, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c04626) Soc.* **2021**, *143*, [10822–10827](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c04626).
- [10] B. You, X. Liu, N. Jiang, Y. Sun, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b07127) Soc.* **2016**, *138*, [13639–13646](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.6b07127).
- [11] Y. Huang, X. Chong, C. Liu, Y. Liang, B. Zhang, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201807717) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2018**, *130*, [13347–13350](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201807717).
- [12] W. J. Liu, Z. Xu, D. Zhao, X. Q. Pan, H. C. Li, X. Hu, Z. Y. Fan, W. K. Wang, G. H. Zhao, S. Jin, G. W. Huber, H. Q. Yu, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 265.
- [13] B. You, N. Jiang, X. Liu, Y. Sun, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201603798) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, [9913–9917](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201603798).
- [14] L. Wang, Y. Zhu, Y. Wen, S. Li, C. Cui, F. Ni, Y. Liu, H. Lin, Y. Li, H. Peng, B. Zhang, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.202100610) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *133*, [10671–10676](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.202100610).
- [15] L. Yi, Y. Ji, P. Shao, J. Chen, J. Li, H. Li, K. Chen, X. Peng, Z. Wen, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, [21550–21557](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202108992).
- [16] T. Wang, X. Cao, L. Jiao, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202213328.
- [17] F. Sun, J. Qin, Z. Wang, M. Yu, X. Wu, X. Sun, J. Qiu, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 4182.
- [18] Q. Qian, J. Zhang, J. Li, Y. Li, X. Jin, Y. Zhu, Y. Liu, Z. Li, A. El-Harairy, C. Xiao, G. Zhang, Y. Xie, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.202014362) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *133*, [6049–6058](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.202014362).

## *Forschungsartikel*

- [19] H. Jin, X. Wang, C. Tang, A. Vasileff, L. Li, A. Slattery, S. Z. Qiao, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, [2007508](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202007508).
- [20] G. Feng, L. An, B. Li, Y. Zuo, J. Song, F. Ning, N. Jiang, X. Cheng, Y. Zhang, D. Xia, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 4514.
- [21] Y. Liu, J. Zhang, Y. Li, Q. Qian, Z. Li, G. Zhang, *Adv. [Funct.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202103673) Mater.* **2021**, *31*, [2103673.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202103673)
- [22] Q. Liu, X. Liao, Y. Tang, J. Wang, X. Lv, X. Pan, R. Lu, Y. Zhao, X. Yu, H. B. Wu, *Energy [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2EE01463G) Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 3246– [3256.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2EE01463G)
- [23] A. O. Elnabawy, J. A. Herron, S. Karraker, M. Mavrikakis, *[J.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.010) Catal.* **2021**, *397*, [137–147](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.010).
- [24] Y. Zhou, F. Wei, H. Qi, Y. Chai, L. Cao, J. Lin, Q. Wan, X. Liu, Y. Xing, S. Lin, A. Wang, X. Wang, T. Zhang, *Nat. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-022-00885-1)* **2022**, *5*, [1145–1156](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-022-00885-1).
- [25] J. Mahmood, F. Li, S. M. Jung, M. S. Okyay, I. Ahmad, S. J. Kim, N. Park, H. Y. Jeong, J. B. Baek, *Nat. [Nanotechnol.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nnano.2016.304)* **2017**, *12*, [441–446.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nnano.2016.304)
- [26] Z. Jiang, S. Song, X. Zheng, X. Liang, Z. Li, H. Gu, Z. Li, Y. Wang, S. Liu, W. Chen, D. Wang, Y. Li, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c09613) Soc.* **2022**, *144*, [19619–19626](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c09613).
- [27] Y. Li, J. Zhang, Y. Liu, Q. Qian, Z. Li, Y. Zhu, G. Zhang, *Sci. Adv.* **2020**, *6*, eabb4197.
- [28] P. Zhu, X. Xiong, D. Wang, *Nano Res.* **2022**, *15*, [5792–5815](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-022-4265-y).
- [29] T. Chao, Y. Hu, X. Hong, Y. Li, *[ChemElectroChem](https://doi.org/10.1002/celc.201801189)* **2019**, *6*, [289–303.](https://doi.org/10.1002/celc.201801189)
- [30] Z. Li, S. Ji, Y. Liu, X. Cao, S. Tian, Y. Chen, Z. Niu, Y. Li, *Chem. Rev.* **2020**, *120*, [623–682](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.9b00311).
- [31] T. Gan, D. Wang, *Nano Res.* **2023**. [https://doi.org/10.1007/](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-023-5700-4) [s12274-023-5700-4.](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-023-5700-4)

- [32] J. Shan, C. Ye, C. Zhu, J. Dong, W. Xu, L. Chen, Y. Jiao, Y. Jiang, L. Song, Y. Zhang, M. Jaroniec, Y. Zhu, Y. Zheng, S. Z. Qiao, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, [23214–23222.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c11374)
- [33] H. Ou, G. Li, W. Ren, B. Pan, G. Luo, Z. Hu, D. Wang, Y. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, [22075–22082](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c09424).
- [34] Y. Qu, Z. Li, W. Chen, Y. Lin, T. Yuan, Z. Yang, C. Zhao, J. Wang, C. Zhao, X. Wang, F. Zhou, Z. Zhuang, Y. Wu, Y. Li, *Nat. Catal.* **2018**, *1*, [781–786](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-018-0146-x).
- [35] Z. Zhang, J. Zhu, S. Chen, W. Sun, D. Wang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202215136.
- [36] R. Li, D. Wang, *Nano Res.* **2022**, *15*, [6888–6923.](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-022-4371-x)
- [37] P. Li, M. Wang, X. Duan, L. Zheng, X. Cheng, Y. Zhang, Y. Kuang, Y. Li, Q. Ma, Z. Feng, W. Liu, X. Sun, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 1711.
- [38] J. Yin, Y. Li, F. Lv, M. Lu, K. Sun, W. Wang, L. Wang, F. Cheng, Y. Li, P. Xi, S. Guo, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, [1704681.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201704681)
- [39] J. Zhang, L. Dai, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, [13296–13300.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201607405)
- [40] Z. Chen, Y. Song, J. Cai, X. Zheng, D. Han, Y. Wu, Y. Zang, S. Niu, Y. Liu, J. Zhu, X. Liu, G. Wang, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201801834) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, [5076–5080](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201801834).
- [41] J. Zhang, G. Chen, Q. Liu, C. Fan, D. Sun, Y. Tang, H. Sun, X. Feng, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202209486.

Manuscript received: June 22, 2023 Accepted manuscript online: July 10, 2023 Version of record online: July 10, 2023