---
source: Huang 等 - 2025 - Manipulating the d‐Band Center of Ir by Metal‐Support Interaction to Optimize the Adsorption for Sel.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 50.900s
generated: 2026-01-10T07:24:57.074023Z
---

Check for updates

Catalysts

# Manipulating the d-Band Center of Ir by Metal-Support Interaction to Optimize the Adsorption for Self-Powered Hydrazine Oxidation-Assisted Hydrogen Generation

Junlin Huang\* , Minghao Jin, Hao Zhang, Wei Wang\*, Aojie Li, Yucan Zhu, Jing Zhang, Hong Yin, Wenyuan Xu\*, and Minjie Zhou\*

The hydrazine oxidation-assisted hydrogen generation system significantly expands the applicability of hydrogen production technology. However, the complex intermediate transformations involved in the hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR) and hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) desperately need the development of dual-functional catalysts. Manipulating the d-band center of metal catalysts has been identified as one of the most effective approaches to enhance catalytic activity. Herein, Ir nanoparticles (NPs) anchored in B, N-codoped porous carbon (Ir@BNC) were developed and demonstrate excellent performances for both HER and HzOR in an alkaline medium, achieving 10 mA cm $^{-2}$  at -25 and 18 mV, respectively. The overall hydrazine splitting (OHzS) electrolyzer reaches 200 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> with a cell voltage of just 0.68 V. The direct liquid N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub>/H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> fuel cell (DHHPFC) assembly with Ir@BNC can achieve a maximum power density of 199.2 mW cm<sup>-2</sup> at room temperature. Furthermore, an H2 production system using an OHzS device powered by DHHPFC realizes hydrogen production at a stable rate (53.08 mol  $h^{-1}$  m<sup>-2</sup>). In-situ Raman tests and theoretical calculations unravel the metal-support interaction between Ir NPs and B, N-codoped porous carbon, optimizing the electronic structure and regulating the d-band center of Ir, reducing the adsorption energy of H\* intermediates and N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> molecules, thus promoting the reaction processes of HER and HzOR.

Dr. J. Huang, M. Jin, H. Zhang, Prof. W. Wang, A. Li, Prof. Y. Zhu, Prof. H. Yin, Prof. W. Xu, Prof. M. Zhou

Key Laboratory of Hunan Province for Advanced Carbon-Based Functional Materials, College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Hunan Institute of Science and Technology, Yueyang 414006, China

E-mail: junlinhuang1022@163.com E-mail: ww1454174@foxmail.com E-mail: wenyuanxu@126.com E-mail: zmj0104@126.com

Dr. J. Huang

State Key Laboratory of Chemo/Biosensing and Chemometrics, College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Hunan University, Changsha 410082,

Prof. J. Zhang

College of Mechanical Engineering, Hunan Institute of Science and Technology, Yueyang 414006, China

Prof. H. Yin

International Iberian Nanotechnology Laboratory (INL), Braga 4715-330, Portugal

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/eem2.70159.

DOI: 10.1002/eem2.70159

#### 1. Introduction

Faced with the escalating challenges of energy crises and environmental pollution, there is a growing awareness of the importance of developing clean energy. [1] Among clean energy options, hydrogen energy is considered a hugely promising choice due to its many advantages, such as high calorific value and environmental friendliness.<sup>[2,3]</sup> Compared with traditional methods of hydrogen production, such as combustion of fossil fuels and methane reforming, water electrolysis is a zero-emission process that benefits from reducing environmental pollution. [4,5] However, the current water electrolysis technology suffers from the drawbacks of high overpotential and sluggish kinetics of the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) at the anode, leading to an increase in energy cost. [6] To overcome this issue, researchers have begun exploring the substitution of small molecule (alcohols, amine, hydrazine, urea, etc.) oxidation for OER.<sup>[7,8]</sup> Among these, the hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR) stands out for its low reaction potential (N2H4+  $4OH^{-} = N_2 + 4H_2O + 4e^{-}$ , E = -0.33 V vs

RHE) and environmental safety as  $N_2$  is the only byproduct. [9–11] On the other hand, the electrolyte used by HzOR can be waste hydrazine emitted by modern industrial manufacturing, so substituting overall hydrazine splitting (OHzS) for overall water splitting (OWS) not only saves energy, but also degrades waste hydrazine, achieving two different goals in a single action. [12–14] Therefore, it is significant to develop dual-functional catalysts with favorable performance for both hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and HzOR. [15]

Noble metal catalysts exhibit highly intrinsic activity in the field of electrocatalysis. Iridium (Ir) is close to the top of the volcanic curve ( $\Delta G_{H^*} = -0.03$  eV) and can be an ideal HER electrocatalyst candidate. [16] For instance, Lu et al. synthesized small Ir nanoparticles (NPs) dispersed on the Ni/N-doped carbon nanofibers (Ni-NCNFs-Ir) via a straightforward chemical reduction deposition process. Ni-NCNFs-Ir exhibits a minimal overpotential of 25 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for HER in 1 m KOH. [17] Theoretical calculations demonstrated that the metal-support interaction (MSI) promotes electron transfer between the carbon support and Ir metal, enhancing the HER catalytic activity. However, there are relatively few reports on the study of Ir metal in the

field of HzOR. Consequently, developing efficient dual-functional Ir-based catalysts to promote both HzOR and HER is urgent but still remains challenging.

In recent years, the d-band center has been widely used as a universal descriptor to measure the adsorption strength of reaction intermediates on metal catalyst surfaces. [18-20] A low d-band center limits the absorption of intermediates, while a high d-band center impedes the desorption. The d-band center depends on the surface-bound electronic states of the active metal. Active metal is usually loaded on the supports; therefore, choosing a suitable support to adjust the d-band center of active metal by the optimized MSI is a key issue in the construction of electrocatalysts with excellent catalytic activity. [21-24] N-doped carbon materials were the usual supports to load metal particles, as N atom can attract and anchor metal species by metal-N bond.<sup>[25,26]</sup> For instance, Yang's group reported the Ir single atom loaded on N-doped carbon (Ir-SA/NC) as an efficient HER electrocatalyst. The formation of the Ir-N<sub>4</sub> structure effectively stabilizes the Ir single atom and provides a solid foundation for the excellent catalytic activity of Ir-SA/NC.<sup>[27]</sup> Nevertheless, recent theoretical investigations reveal that monoatomic nitrogen doping exhibits constrained efficacy in modulating the d-band center of metal sites, as the pronounced electronegativity of N ( $\chi = 3.04$ ) could elevate the system's free energy. [28,29] Therefore, it is meaningful to introduce a heterogeneous element with relatively weak electronegativity coupling with N to adjust the electronic state and manipulate the d-band center of the metal center, thus optimizing the adsorption of intermediates and improving the catalytic activity.

Boron (B), an electron-deficient element (the electronic configuration of boron is  $1s_22s_22p_1$ ) with weak electronegativity ( $\chi = 2.04$ ), is commonly adopted as a dopant due to the similar atomic size to carbon. [30] Herein, by selecting N and B elements with a large electronegativity difference, we designed and fabricated Ir nanoparticles loaded on B, N co-doped porous carbon (Ir@BNC) through one-step pyrolysis. The electronic state and d-band center of Ir were synergistically affected by N and B atoms. Ir@BNC exhibits eminent performances for both HER and HzOR, achieving great potentials of -25 mV for HER and 18 mV for HzOR to reach a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> under alkaline conditions. Resultantly, the OHzS electrolyzer equipped with Ir@BNC catalysts can reach 200 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at a low voltage of 0.68 V. In addition, the direct liquid N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub>/H<sub>2</sub>O<sub>2</sub> fuel cell (DHHPFC) assembly with Ir@BNC as both anode and cathode reveal an open-circuit voltage of 1.79 V and can achieve a remarkable power density of 199.2 mW cm<sup>-2</sup> under ambient temperature. Further, an OHzS device can be powered by DHHPFC and realize hydrogen production at a stable rate (53.08 mol h<sup>-1</sup> m<sup>-2</sup>) without external electricity supply. In-situ Raman tests and theoretical calculations indicate the MSI between Ir NPs and B, N-codoped porous carbon downshift the d-band center of Ir, leading to a reduction of adsorption energy for  $H^{*}$ intermediates and N2H4 molecules on the Ir site, thus resulting in excellent HER and HzOR performances in alkaline media.

## 2. Results and Discussion

### 2.1. Structural Characterization

The synthesis process of Ir@BNC is illustrated in **Figure 1**a. Briefly, carbon support was first synthesized through the high-temperature carbonization of ZIF-8. Subsequently, Ir@BNC was prepared via

one-step pyrolysis by using iridium trichloride, boric acid, and melamine as the sources. The morphology of the materials was preliminarily characterized using scanning electron microscopy (SEM). From Figure S1, Supporting Information, it can be observed that the prepared ZIF-8 exhibits distinct dodecahedral structures, with a particle size of approximately 400 nm. The results in Figure 1b,c demonstrate that Ir@BNC preserves its well-defined polyhedral morphology after pyrolysis. Moreover, no obvious metal particles were observed on the surface of Ir@BNC, indicating Ir NPs are well dispersed and of small size. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) was further employed to investigate the morphological and architectural properties of Ir@BNC. From Figure 1d,e and Figure S3, Supporting Information, it clearly illustrates the uniform dispersal of ultrafine Ir nanoparticles with a diameter of 2.15 nm throughout the carbon framework. Meanwhile, some Ir NPs are encapsulated into BNC (Figure 1e). This could be attributed to the introduction of heteroatoms promoting the anchoring of Ir atoms to the carbon support. In Figure 1f, high-resolution transmission electron microscope (HRTEM) image of Ir@BNC exhibits clear lattice fringes with lattice spacings of 1.9 and 2.2 Å, corresponding to the (200) and (111) crystal planes of metal Ir, respectively, confirming the successful synthesis of Ir NPs. [31,32] Additionally, through HAADF-STEM-EDX elemental mapping shown in Figure 1g and Figure S4, Supporting Information, it was confirmed that N and B were successfully doped into the carbon support and were distributed uniformly. The Ir loading content in Ir@BNC was confirmed to be 9.85 wt% by inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry (ICP-OES) in Table S1, Supporting Information.

The crystal structure of materials was analyzed by X-ray diffraction (XRD). As shown in Figure 2a, there are two broad peaks near  $26^{\circ}$ and 42°, belonging to the (002) and (101) crystal planes of carbon, respectively.<sup>[33]</sup> In addition, no characteristic peaks for metallic Ir were observed in Figure S5, Supporting Information. The absence of detectable Ir-related diffraction signals is likely attributed to the nanoscale dimensions of the Ir species and their high dispersion within the B,Ncodoped carbon matrix, which is consistent with the previous STEM results. Figure 2b shows the N2 adsorption-desorption isotherms and pore size distribution curves of Ir@BNC and BNC support. Both of the isotherms display the type-IV characteristics accompanied by H3 hysteresis loops, demonstrating that the Ir@BNC maintains the porous architecture inherent to the BNC support. [34] The Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) surface area of Ir@BNC was 985 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>, a little declined from the BNC support (1153  $\text{m}^2\text{ g}^{-1}$ ). Such a substantial surface area coupled with a hierarchically porous architecture could promote the accessibility of catalytic sites and optimize the mass transfer process during the catalytic reaction. Besides, during the synthesis process, some Ir ions enter into the pores of the BNC support and are fixed, resulting in a decrease in the pore volume in the pore size distribution curve. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was used to further study the chemical state of elements. The survey spectra confirm the presence of C, N, O, B, and Ir elements in the Ir@BNC sample (Figure S6, Supporting Information), consistent with the EDS elemental mapping results. The elemental atom ratios were determined and shown in Table S2, Supporting Information. The doping amounts of Ir in the samples were consistent with the results determined by ICP-OES (Table S1, Supporting Information). In Figure 2c, the C 1s high-resolution spectrum of Ir@BNC contains three peaks situated at 287.9, 285.7, and 284.8 eV representing C-B, C-N, and C-C bonds, respectively, [35] indicating the successful doping of elements N and B into the carbon substrate. The N 1s high-resolution spectrum of Ir@BNC (Figure 2d) exhibits four

<span id="page-2-0"></span>Figure 1. Synthesis and structural characterization of Ir@BNC. a) Schematic of the synthesis of Ir@BNC. b, c) SEM images of Ir@BNC at different magnifications. d) HAADF-STEM image of Ir@BNC and size distribution histogram of Ir NPs (Inset). e–g) TEM, HRTEM, and EDS elemental mapping of Ir@BNC.

peaks, which are concentrated at 401.6, 400.7, 399.8, and 398.6 eV, corresponding to graphitic N, pyrrolic N, Ir–N, and pyridine N, respectively.[\[36\]](#page-9-0) The presence of the Ir–N bond indicates the MSI and electrons are transferred from the Ir to the N atom. In particular, the intensity of the Ir–N bond in Ir@BNC is significantly reduced compared with Ir@NC, which may be caused by some N atoms being substituted with B atoms to bond with Ir metal. In the B 1s high-resolution spectrum of Ir@BNC (Figure [2e](#page-3-0)), the peak centered at 193.0 eV corresponds to the B–Ir bond, confirming electrons are transferred from B to the Ir atom, based on the electronegativity between Ir and B. The peak at 192.1 eV corresponds to B–C bonds, whose binding energy is higher than that of B0 (187.2 eV), indicating B atoms are successfully doped into the C substrate and the electrons may be transferred from B to C.[\[32\]](#page-9-0) The Ir 4f orbital of Ir@BNC can be assigned to 25750356, 0, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/eem2.70159 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-3-0"></span>Figure 2. Structure and chemical state of materials. a) XRD patterns of Ir@BNC, Ir@NC, Ir@C, and C support. b) Pore size distribution curves of BNC support and Ir@BNC (Inset: N<sub>2</sub> adsorption–desorption isotherms). High-resolution XPS spectra of samples: c) C 1s, d) N 1s, e) B 1s, and f) Ir 4f.

four peaks of Ir 4f  $^0_{7/2}$ , Ir 4f  $^{n+}_{7/2}$ , Ir 4f  $^0_{5/2}$ , and Ir 4f  $^{n+}_{5/2}$ , with binding energies at 61.1, 62.0, 64.3, and 65.1 eV, respectively (Figure 2f). [16,37] Notably, compared to Ir@NC, the peak positions of Ir@BNC are in a negatively shifted state, revealing a lower valence state of the Ir center. The negative shift may arise from the electropositive nature of the B atom, proving electrons are transferred from B to the Ir atom. The XPS results collectively demonstrate that the electronic transfer between Ir metal and support follows two paths of Ir  $\rightarrow$  N  $\rightarrow$  C and C  $\leftarrow$  B  $\rightarrow$  Ir. The MSI between Ir and support can regulate the surface electronic state of Ir with a suitable electron cloud density, thus enhancing the catalytic activity of Ir sites.

#### 2.2. Electrochemical HER Performance

The catalytic activity toward HER of the samples was first conducted through linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) in 1 M KOH electrolyte. **Figure 3a** reveals that Ir@BNC exhibits optimal activity with overpotential of only 25 mV to reach 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> ( $\eta_{10} = 25$  mV), which is lower than Ir@C (42 mV), Ir@NC (37 mV), and Pt/C (33 mV). Tafel slopes were analyzed to further reveal the reaction kinetics (Figure 3b). Ir@BNC demonstrates a small Tafel slope of 36.4 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, indicating its fast reaction kinetics and follows the Volmer-Tafel mechanism, where hydrogen desorption is the rate-limiting step. [38–40] Comparing the  $\eta_{10}$  and Tafel slope of Ir@BNC and the contrasting samples, the results shown in Figure 3c manifest a significant improvement in the HER behavior of Ir species due to B, N co-doped carbon substrate.

The electronic structure of Ir was synergistically modified by B and N atoms, promoting the HER kinetics of Ir@BNC in alkaline media. For precious metal-based catalysts, mass activity serves as a critical metric to assess practical efficacy in applications. As shown in Figure 3d, Ir@BNC demonstrates a higher mass activity of 0.187 and 1.097 A mg<sup>-1</sup> at -10 and -100 mV, respectively, which are 2.5 and 1.9 times higher than Pt/C. To gain deeper insights into the origin of the enhanced catalytic performance of Ir@BNC, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) analyses were systematically performed. The EIS Nyquist plots of the catalysts are shown in Figure 3e; all prepared samples present two different semicircles, with the high-frequency one associated with surface porosity and the low-frequency one associated with the charge transfer process capability.<sup>[41]</sup> As expected, the charge transfer resistance  $(R_{ct})$  value of Ir@BNC (6.0  $\Omega$ ) is the smallest among the catalysts, indicating more efficient charge transfer kinetics during the HER process. The electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) of the catalyst is a critical parameter to govern catalytic performance, demonstrating a linear dependence on its double-layer capacitance  $(C_{\rm dl})^{[42]}$  In Figure 3f, the  $C_{dl}$  value of Ir@BNC is 38.33 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>, much higher than Ir@NC  $(20.44 \text{ mF cm}^{-2})$ , Ir@C  $(8.09 \text{ mF cm}^{-2})$ , and Pt/C  $(20.44 \text{ mF cm}^{-2})$ mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), indicating that Ir@BNC has a larger ECSA and can provide more active sites to facilitate electrochemical reactions.

Turnover frequency (TOF), a descriptor to benchmark the site-specific catalytic performance, was widely used to characterize the inherent reaction kinetics of catalysts. [42] Ir@BNC can achieve a TOF of 3.09 s $^{-1}$  at -0.3 V, significantly higher than Ir@C (2.86 s $^{-1}$ ), Ir@NC (3.01 s $^{-1}$ ), and Pt/C (1.60 s $^{-1}$ ), confirming its superior

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** Electrocatalytic HER performances of catalysts in 1 M KOH. a–g) LSV polarization curves, Tafel plots, comparison of  $\eta_{10}$  and Tafel slope, mass activities, EIS Nyquist curves,  $C_{dl}$  fitted curves, and TOF curves of Ir@NC, Ir@NC, Ir@NC, and Pt/C catalysts. h) Chronopotentiometry test of Ir@BNC at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. i) The comparison of  $\eta_{10}$  between Ir@BNC and other reported noble metal electrocatalysts.

inherent activity, fast catalytic reaction rate, and great application potential (Figure 3g). The significant differences in TOF between these catalysts further suggest that the modulation of the electronic structure by MSI is an effective strategy to boost catalytic activity. To assess the

stability of Ir@BNC, a chronopotentiometry test was performed (Figure 3h). Ir@BNC operated consistently over 45 h under 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, exhibiting exceptional durability. Additionally, the stability of Ir@BNC is superior to Ir@C (Figure S7, Supporting

2579056, 0, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/eem2.70159 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenses

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 4.** Electrocatalytic performances toward HzOR and OHzS in 1  $\,$ m KOH + 0.5  $\,$ m N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub>. a–d) LSV polarization curves, Tafel plots, comparison of  $E_{10}$  and Tafel slope, and mass activities of Ir@C, Ir@NC, Ir@BNC, and Pt/C catalysts. e) SCN $^-$  poisoning experiment of Ir@BNC. f) The comparison of  $E_{10}$  and Tafel slope between Ir@BNC and other well-developed electrocatalysts. g) LSV polarization curves of Ir@BNC and other commercial precious metal catalysts for OHzS and OWS, respectively. h) Faraday efficiency test of the OHzS system. i) Stability test of the OHzS system at 10 mA cm $^{-2}$ .

Information), indicating that the B and N elements in the carbon support can attract and anchor metal species, avoiding metal dissolution and aggregation during the test. Finally, the activity of Ir@BNC is also superior to that of most recently reported noble metal electrocatalysts (Figure 3i and Table S3, Supporting Information).

#### 2.3. Electrochemical HzOR and OHzS Performances

The electrocatalytic HzOR performance of catalysts was systematically evaluated using a conventional three-electrode system in 1.0 M KOH + 0.5 M N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> electrolyte. **Figure 4**a shows that Ir@BNC exhibits admirable HzOR activity, requiring a low potential of 18 mV to reach a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is superior to Ir@NC (36 mV), Ir@C (28 mV), and Pt/C (127 mV). In addition, Ir@BNC displays a lower tafel slope (22.7 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) than that of Ir@NC (28.1 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), Ir@C (45.4 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), and Pt/C

(52.8 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), indicating a more rapid kinetics process during the HzOR process (Figure 4b,c). It is noteworthy that the mass activity of Ir@BNC is up to 2.75 A mg<sup>-1</sup> at a working potential of 150 mV (Figure 4d), which is 10.6 times higher than that of the Pt/C catalyst (0.26 A mg<sup>-1</sup>). To identify the active site in the catalyst, SCN<sup>-</sup> was used as a poisoning agent due to its strong coordination with Ir. Incorporating SCN- results in a significant decrease in current density under identical applied potential, confirming that Ir metal sites function as the primary active sites governing the electrocatalysis process (Figure 4e and Figure S8, Supporting Information). To evaluate the long-term stability for HzOR, an accelerated durability test (ADT) was performed. After 5000 CV cycles, the LSV curve of Ir@BNC shows a slight shift compared to the initial LSV curve (Figure S9, Supporting Information), showing satisfactory stability. Meanwhile, comparing the anodic polarization curves of catalysts in different electrolytes, Ir@BNC only needs 166 mV to reach a current density of 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for HzOR, 1.63 V lower than that of RuO2 catalyst to reach the same current density for OER, suggesting a substantial decrease in energy consumption for hydrogen production by replacing OER with HzOR (Figure \$10, Supporting Information). Finally, compared with most reported HzOR electrocatalysts, Ir@BNC also exhibits superior catalytic activity (Figure 4f and Table \$4, Supporting Information).

Based on the excellent HzOR and HER activity, a two-electrode OHzS electrolyzer without an anion exchange membrane (AEM) was assembled using Ir@BNC as both cathodic and anodic catalysts. The benefit of employing a design without AEM is to decrease the ion transportation resistance, further reduce the energy consumption, and save cost. Figure 4g illustrates that the OHzS system operates at 0.68 V to reach 200 mA cm $^{-2}$ , outperforming the OWS system with cutting-edge noble metal catalysts. This highlights the effectiveness of combining HzOR and HER as a strategy to reduce energy demands. The OHzS system can yield  $\rm H_2$  with a constant production rate of 1.5 mmol  $\rm h^{-1}$  under an applied voltage of 1.8 V while maintaining a Faraday efficiency approaching 100% (Figure 4h). In addition, as shown in Figure 4i, the OHzS system demonstrates excellent stability under approximately 70 h of operation, verifying its practical application potential.

## 2.4. Electrochemical Performances of Self-Powered H<sub>2</sub> Production System

Based on the remarkable HER and HzOR performances exhibited by Ir@BNC, a hybrid hydrogen generation system that combined the DHHPFC with an OHzS unit was successfully developed (Figure 5a). The DHHPFC was assembled by using Ir@BNC as both anode and cathode catalysts. The home-made Ir@BNC||Ir@BNC DHHPFC presents a high open-circuit voltage of 1.79 V (Figure 5b) and a remarkable maximal power density of 199.2 mW cm<sup>-2</sup> at room temperature (Figure 5c). Additionally, the stability of the Ir@BNC||Ir@BNC DHHPFC was tested to comprehensively evaluate its performance. As shown in Figure 5d, the DHHPFC system discharged stably for 6000 s at 200 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> with barely any voltage change, demonstrating the remarkable stability under operational conditions. The performances of Ir@BNC||Ir@BNC DHHPFC were superior to Ir@BNC||Pt/C DHHPFC 179.1 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>), Pt/C||Pt/C DHHPFC (1.40 V, 94.0 mW cm<sup>-2</sup>), and the previously reported DHHPFCs operating at the same conditions (Figure 5e). Capitalizing on superior OHzS and DHHPFC performances, a self-powered hydrogen generation system utilizing the DHHPFC to directly power the OHzS electrolyzer was developed (Figure 5f). It can be observed clearly in Video S1, Supporting Information that bubbles were generated rapidly on the surface of electrodes with a hydrogen generation rate of 53.08 mol h<sup>-1</sup> m<sup>-2</sup>. These results demonstrate the excellent catalytic activity of Ir@BNC and the feasibility of a self-powered hydrogen generation system combining DHHPFC with OHzS.

## 2.5. Mechanistic Investigation

To gain deeper insights into the enhanced catalytic activity of Ir@BNC, in-situ Raman spectroscopy was conducted under different working potentials. As shown in **Figure 6a**, the Raman spectrum of Ir@BNC revealed a broad peak near  $\approx 3500$  cm<sup>-1</sup>, corresponding to interfacial water molecules. The peak was further deconvoluted into three distinct peaks with high fitting accuracy (Figure 6b). The peaks at

 $\approx$ 3225 cm<sup>-1</sup> (v1) and  $\approx$ 3450 cm<sup>-1</sup> (v2) were identified as tetrahedrally and trigonally coordinated water, respectively, both of which are actively involved in the HER process. Additionally, the peak at  $\approx$ 3615 cm<sup>-1</sup> (v3) was assigned to the dangling O–H bond of interfacial water, typically considered inactive. As illustrated in Figure 6c, the peak intensity of the dangling O–H bond of interfacial water (v3) for Ir@BNC diminished as the applied potential decreased, suggesting an accelerated dissociation of water on the catalyst surface. [43]

Density functional theory (DFT) calculation was further performed to investigate the origins of the high catalytic activity. The structural models of Ir@NC and Ir@BNC were presented in Figures S11 and S12, Supporting Information. Differential charge density analysis shown in Figure 6d, e, and Figure \$13, Supporting Information reveals that the introduction of B and N atoms enhances electron transfer between the Ir center and carbon substrates, optimizing the electronic structure of Ir in Ir@BNC. The Ir atoms in Ir@BNC are more electron-rich than those in Ir@NC due to the low electronegativity of B, potentially leading to a weakened binding strength with H\*, thereby accelerating the Tafel process and enhancing HER activity. The d-band center  $(\varepsilon_d)$  is a critical descriptor to evaluate the interaction strength between the catalyst and reaction intermediates.<sup>[18-20]</sup> Ir metal typically exhibits suboptimal catalytic activity due to excessively strong hydrogen adsorption, which hinders H\* transfer and H<sub>2</sub> desorption. [16] From the projected density of states (PDOS) plot (Figure 6f), it can be observed that the distribution of d electrons of Ir@BNC was modulated by B and N atoms collectively. The d-band center position of Ir in Ir@BNC ( $\varepsilon_d = -2.14$  eV) was deeper than that of Ir@NC (-2.08 eV) and Ir@C (-1.69 eV), indicating that B and N atom doping induces the d-band center of Ir farther away from the Fermi level, thereby weakening the adsorption strength of intermediates and facilitating H\* transfer and H2 desorption process on Ir metals. [44,45] Tafel analysis indicated that the HER process of Ir@BNC follows the Volmer-Tafel pathway, in which the combination of the H\* intermediate and H2 desorption is the rate-determining step (RDS). From a thermodynamic perspective, the hydrogen adsorption free energy  $(\Delta G_{H^*})$  serves as a crucial metric for assessing catalyst performance. [46] An optimal  $\Delta G_{H^*}$  value is close to zero for ensuring an ideal equilibrium between hydrogen adsorption and desorption, thereby maximizing the catalytic efficiency. As shown in Figure 6g, the  $\Delta G_{H^*}$  of Ir@BNC (-0.12 eV) is closer to zero than Ir@NC~(-0.52 eV), achieving an optimal balance between hydrogen adsorption and desorption, agreeing with the variation of the d-band center. In particular, due to the hybridization of Ir d orbitals with H 1s orbitals, the  $\varepsilon_d$  of the Ir shifts toward negative values ( $\varepsilon_d = -2.15$  eV), further demonstrating the charge redistribution of Ir and the weakening of Ir-H bonds, reducing the resistance of H<sub>2</sub> desorption (Figure 6h,i). The adsorption energy for N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub>  $(\Delta E_{\rm N2H4})$  on the surface of the catalysts was also calculated to investigate the HzOR mechanism. Ir@BNC exhibits a less negative  $\Delta E_{\rm N2H4}$ (-2.46 eV) compared to Ir@NC (-2.53 eV), indicating moderate N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> adsorption capability, which is beneficial for subsequent dehydrogenation steps. In addition, Figure \$14, Supporting Information presents the adsorption models of hydrazine molecules on Ir@BNC and Ir@NC surfaces. When N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> adsorbed on Ir@BNC, the N-H bond elongated to 2.773 Å, significantly exceeding the corresponding bond length on Ir@NC (2.530 Å) and the characteristic N-H single-bond length (1.01 Å, NIST CCCBDB). The results indicate that the N-H bond in N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> was in an activated state, which is conducive to the breaking of the bond and the subsequent dehydrogenation steps of HzOR. In summary, the cooperative interaction arising from dual doping of boron and nitrogen facilitates charge migration at the interface between Ir species and

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 5.** Assemble and test the performance of DHHPFC self-powered OHzS system. a) Diagram of DHHPFC self-powered OHzS system. b—c) Open-circuit voltage test, discharge polarization curves, and power density plots of Ir@BNC||Ir@BNC, Ir@BNC||Pt/C, and Pt/C||Pt/C DHHPFCs. d) Galvanostatic discharge curves of Ir@BNC||Ir@BNC DHHPFC at 200 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. e) Comparison of the peak power density of Ir@BNC||Ir@BNC DHHPFC with other literature is reported. f) Photos of DHHPFC self-powered OHzS system and open-circuit voltage of Ir@BNC||Ir@BNC DHHPFC.

the substrate material, while simultaneously modulating the local electronic configuration and d-band center of Ir. This synergistic modification further optimizes the adsorption capacity for  $H^*$  and  $N_2H_4$ , and  $H_2$  desorption during electrocatalytic processes. These attributes collectively contribute to the exceptional HER and HzOR performances of Ir@BNC.

## 3. Conclusion

In summary, an advanced Ir@BNC electrocatalyst was successfully constructed by manipulating the d-band center of Ir metal through the MSI between B, N co-doped carbon support and Ir central. With optimal adsorption to reaction intermediates, Ir@BNC exhibits excellent

electrocatalytic performance, achieving a low potential of -25 mV for HER and 18 mV for HzOR to reach 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> under alkaline conditions. Remarkably, the OHzS configuration demonstrates exceptional performance to afford a current density of 200 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at a low operating potential of 0.68 V. This breakthrough highlights the significant energy-saving potential. Importantly, the DHHPFC assembly with Ir@BNC as both anode and cathode can achieve a maximum power density of 199.2 mW cm<sup>-2</sup> and drive the OHzS system at a stable hydrogen generation rate (53.08 mol h<sup>-1</sup> m<sup>-2</sup>). DFT calculation coupled with in-situ Raman spectroscopic analysis demonstrates that the interfacial interactions between Ir species and B,N co-doped carbon substrate, mediated by Ir–B and Ir–N linkages, effectively promote interfacial charge migration, refine the electronic configuration, and

<span id="page-8-0"></span>Figure 6. Mechanism investigation on the catalytic activity of Ir@BNC. a) corresponding waterfall plots of in-situ Raman spectra for Ir@BNC under different potentials in 1.0  $\,\mathrm{m}$  KOH. b) The three peaks of interfacial water at  $\approx$ 3500 cm $^{-1}$  for Ir@BNC at -0.2 V. c) Normalized intensities of the v3 peak of interfacial water on Ir@BNC from 0 to -0.5 V. Charge density difference plots of d) Ir@BNC and e) Ir@NC. f) PDOS plots of d-band center in Ir@C, Ir@NC, and Ir@BNC. g) Calculated free-energy diagram of  $\Delta G_{\mathrm{H}^{**}}$  on different simples at the equilibrium potential. h) Charge density difference plot of Ir@BNC after H adsorption.

modulate the d-band center of supported Ir catalysts. These effects collectively reduce the adsorption energy of Ir to  $H^*$  intermediate and  $N_2H_4$  molecules, and promote efficient  $H_2$  desorption, thus resulting in excellent catalytic performance in alkaline media.

## 4. Experimental Section

Synthesis of porous carbon (C): Three hundred and thirty milligram zinc acetate dihydrate and 985 mg 2-methylimidazole were dissolved in 90 mL anhydrous ethanol, respectively. The two solutions were then mixed, stirred for 5 min, and left at room temperature for 24 h. Subsequently, the sample of ZIF-8 was centrifuged, washed with anhydrous ethanol, and dried overnight. ZIF-8 powder was carbonized at 950 °C for 2 h under  $N_2$  atmosphere to obtain porous carbon (C).

Synthesis of Ir@BNC: Fifteen milligram porous carbon, 5 mg (0.016 mmol) iridium (III) chloride, 20 mg (0.16 mmol) melamine, and 19.8 mg (0.32 mmol) boric acid were added to 40 mL of deionized water. The mixture was stirred

continuously at room temperature for 5 h and further dried to obtain a solid mixture. Then, the mixture was annealed at 600 °C for 2 h in a N<sub>2</sub> atmosphere to obtain Ir@BNC. As the control experiment, Ir@BC, Ir@NC, and Ir@C were prepared under the same processes without adding one or two parts of melamine and boric acid.

## **Acknowledgements**

This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (52371222, 52271211, 52303341), the Natural Science Foundation of Hunan Province in China (2025JJ60350, 2023JJ50043), Key Research and Development Program of Hunan Province (2023GK2035), and HORIZON EUROPE Marie Sklodowska-Curie Actions-2021 (101065098).

#### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest

2575056, 0, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wieje.com/doi/10.1002/eem2.70159 by University of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/1226]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenses.

## <span id="page-9-0"></span>Supporting Information

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## Keywords

d-band center, hydrazine oxidation reaction, hydrogen evolution reaction, Ir nanoparticles, metal-support interaction

> Received: May 26, 2025 Revised: August 10, 2025 Published online: August 21, 2025

- [1] S. Chu, A. Majumdar, Nature 2012, 488, 294.
- [2] S. Z. Baykara, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2018, 43, 10605.
- [3] J. A. Turner, Science 2004, 305, 972.
- [4] D. Tonelli, L. Rosa, P. Gabrielli, K. Caldeira, A. Parente, F. Contino, Nat. Commun. 2023, 14, 5532.
- [5] J. Bracci, E. Sherwin, N. Boness, A. Brandt, Nat. Commun. 2023, 14, 7391.
- [6] W. Shi, T. Shen, C. Xing, K. Sun, Q. Yan, W. Niu, X. Yang, J. Li, C. Wei, R. Wang, S. Fu, Y. Yang, L. Xue, J. Chen, S. Cui, X. Hu, K. Xie, X. Xu, S. Duan, Y. Xu, B. Zhang, Science 2025, 387, 791.
- [7] H. Wang, L. Wang, J. Ren, W. Tian, M. Sun, Z. Yuan, Nano-Micro Lett. 2023, 15, 155.
- [8] T. Wang, L. Tao, X. Zhu, C. Chen, W. Chen, S. Du, Y. Zhou, B. Zhou, D. Wang, C. Xie, Nat. Catal. 2022, 5, 66.
- [9] C. Feng, M. Lv, J. Shao, H. Wu, W. Zhou, S. Qi, C. Deng, X. Chai, H. Yang, Q. Hu, Adv. Mater. 2023, 35, 2305598.
- [10] J. Wang, X. Guan, H. Li, S. Zeng, R. Li, Q. Yao, H. Chen, Y. Zheng, K. Qu, Nano Energy 2022, 100, 107467.
- [11] X. Sun, J. Liu, Y. Du, Y. Liu, W. Wang, D. Chen, R. Zhang, L. Wang, ACS Catal. 2024, 14, 17421.
- [12] J. Li, Y. Li, J. Wang, C. Zhang, H. Ma, C. Zhu, D. Fan, Z. Guo, M. Xu, Y. Wang, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2022, 32, 2109439.
- [13] S. Zhang, C. Zhang, X. Zheng, G. Su, H. Wang, M. Huang, Appl. Catal. Environ. 2023, 324, 122207.
- [14] H. Wang, S. Zhai, H. Wang, F. Yan, J. Ren, L. Wang, M. Sun, Z. Yuan, ACS Nano 2024, 18, 19682.
- [15] L. Quan, H. Jiang, G. Mei, Y. Sun, B. You, Chem. Rev. 2024, 124, 3694.
- [16] L. Hou, Z. Li, H. Jang, M. G. Kim, J. Cho, S. Liu, X. Liu, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2024, 63, e202315633.
- [17] X. Chen, W. Gou, J. Xu, R. Qi, S. Ren, C. Wang, W. Chen, G. Yu, X. Lu, Chem. Eng. J. 2023, 471, 144481.
- [18] Y. Xie, C. Chang, F. Luo, Z. Yang, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2023, 15, 20081.
- [19] M. Zhang, H. Li, F. Ma, L. Zhen, Y. Du, C. Xu, Chem. Eng. J. 2023, 471, 144187.
- [20] X. Zhang, C. Yang, C. Gong, M. Liu, W. Zhou, H. Su, F. Yu, F. Hu, Q. Liu, S. Wei, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2023, 135, e202308082.

- [21] C. Wan, Z. Zhang, J. Dong, M. Xu, H. Pu, D. Baumann, Z. Lin, S. Wang, J. Huang, A. H. Shah, X. Pan, T. Hu, A. N. Alexandrova, Y. Huang, X. Duan, Nat. Mater. 2023, 22, 1022.
- [22] L. Zhang, H. Hu, C. Sun, D. Xiao, H. Wang, Y. Xiao, S. Zhao, K. H. Chen, W. Lin, Y. Shao, X. Wang, C. Pao, L. Han, Nat. Commun. 2024, 15, 7179.
- [23] L. Gloag, S. Somerville, J. Gooding, R. Tilley, Nat. Rev. Mater. 2024, 9, 173.
- [24] C. Zhou, K. Ma, Z. Zhuang, M. Ran, G. Shu, C. Wang, L. Song, L. Zheng, H. Yue, D. Wang, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2024, 146, 21453.
- [25] X. Xiao, H. Zhang, Y. Xiong, F. Liang, Y. W. Yang, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2021, 31, 2105562.
- [26] X. Zhang, X. Bai, C. Wei, Z. Wang, B. Xi, S. Xiong, J. Feng, Energy Environ. Sci. 2024, 17, 7403.
- [27] F. Luo, S. Pan, Y. Xie, C. Li, Y. Yu, H. Bao, Z. Yang, Adv. Sci. 2023, 10, 2305058.
- [28] Y. Hou, M. Qiu, M. Kim, P. Liu, G. Nam, T. Zhang, X. Zhuang, B. Yang, J. Cho, M. Chen, Nat. Commun. 2019, 10, 1392.
- [29] Z. Zhang, L. Ni, H. Liu, Z.-L. Zhao, X. Yuan, H. Li, Sci. China Chem. 2022, 65, 611.
- [30] Y. Xia, X. Zhao, C. Xia, Z.-Y. Wu, P. Zhu, J. Y. Kim, X. Bai, G. Gao, Y. Hu, J. Zhong, Y. Liu, H. Wang, Nat. Commun. 2021, 12, 4225.
- [31] H. Huang, X. Guan, H. Li, R. Li, R. Li, S. Zeng, S. Tao, Q. Yao, H. Chen, K. Qu, Chem. Commun. 2022, 58, 2347.
- [32] D. Xue, J. Cheng, P. Yuan, B. A. Lu, H. Xia, C. C. Yang, C. L. Dong, H. Zhang, F. Shi, S.-C. Mu, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2022, 32, 2113191.
- [33] H. Jiang, B. Liu, Y. Lan, K. Kuratani, T. Akita, H. Shioyama, F. Zong, Q. Xu, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2011, 133, 11854.
- [34] P. Pachfule, D. Shinde, M. Majumder, Q. Xu, Nat. Chem. 2016, 8, 718.
- [35] Y. Liu, L. Xing, Y. Liu, D. Lian, M. Chen, W. Zhang, K. Wu, H. Zhu, Z. Sun, W. Chen, Appl. Catal. B Environ. Energy 2024, 353, 124088.
- [36] J. Huang, H. Zhang, T. Suo, J. Cunha, Z. Yu, W. Xu, L. Chen, Z. Hou, H. Yin, Rare Met. 2025, 44, 2502.
- [37] X. Zheng, X. Shi, H. Ning, R. Yang, B. Lu, Q. Luo, S. Mao, L. Xi, Y. Wang, Nat. Commun. 2023, 14, 4209.
- [38] X. Xu, L. Li, H. Chen, X. Zhang, Y. Huang, M. Humayun, Y. A. Attia, Y. Pang, D. Wang, X. Wang, ACS Catal. 2024, 14, 12051.
- [39] T. Wang, Y. Guo, Z. Zhou, X. Chang, J. Zheng, X. Li, ACS Nano 2016, 10, 10397.
- [40] P. Kuang, T. Tong, K. Fan, J. Yu, ACS Catal. 2017, 7, 6179.
- [41] V. M. Nikolic, S. L. Maslovara, G. S. Tasic, T. P. Brdaric, P. Z. Lausevic, B. B. Radak, M. P. Marceta Kaninski, Appl. Catal. Environ. 2015, 179, 88.
- [42] J. Wang, F. Xu, H. Jin, Y. Chen, Y. Wang, Adv. Mater. 2017, 29, 1605838.
- [43] K. Wang, J. Cao, X. Yang, X. Sang, S. Yao, R. Xiang, B. Yang, Z. Li, T. O'Carroll, Q. Zhang, L. Lei, G. Wu, Y. Hou, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2023, 33, 2212321.
- [44] Q. Hu, K. Gao, X. Wang, H. Zheng, J. Cao, L. Mi, Q. Huo, H. Yang, J. Liu, C. He, Nat. Commun. 2022, 13, 3958.
- [45] J. Gu, L. Li, Y. Xie, B. Chen, F. Tian, Y. Wang, J. Zhong, J. Shen, J. Lu, Nat. Commun. 2023, 14, 5389.
- [46] H. Zhang, J. Liao, L. Chen, X. Chen, Z. Yu, H. Yin, J. Zhang, Z. Hou, J. Huang, Rare Met. 2025, 44, 6268.