---
source: Li 等 - 2021 - Polyvinylpyrrolidone gel based PtNi(OH)2 heterostructures with redistributing charges fo.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 64.844s
generated: 2026-01-10T07:29:57.917868Z
---

# Journal of Materials Chemistry A

# **PAPER**

View Article Online
View Journal | View Issue

Cite this: J. Mater. Chem. A, 2021, 9, 27061

# Polyvinylpyrrolidone gel based Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> heterostructures with redistributing charges for enhanced alkaline hydrogen evolution reaction†

Jin Li, (1) ‡a Bo Li, ‡b He Huang, \*bc Shuo Yan, a Changzhou Yuan, (1) \*d Naiteng Wu, (1) a Donglei Guo a and Xianming Liu (1) \*a

Optimizing the water dissociation energy and hydrogen adsorption Gibbs free energy of active sites through redistributing charges in heterostructures is a promising strategy for improving alkaline hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). Herein, we develop a facile avenue to design a Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> heterojunction on nickel foam (NF) encapsulated by polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP) gels with a low Pt content (0.35 wt%). Impressively, the optimized sample exhibits a superior alkaline HER performance with extremely low overpotentials of 12, 37, and 60 mV at current densities of 10, 50, and 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and a Tafel slope of 21.5 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, as well as robust durability for 50 h at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, outperforming commercial Pt/C and most reported alkaline HER catalysts. Experimental results combined with density functional theory (DFT) calculations reveal that PVP gels can not only reconstruct the Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> heterostructure to accelerate the kinetics of water dissociation and lower the hydrogen adsorption Gibbs free energy, thereby enhancing the alkaline HER, but can also elevate the stability of the Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> catalyst. This work provides a promising strategy toward highly efficient and stable alkaline HER catalysis.

Received 21st July 2021 Accepted 7th November 2021

DOI: 10.1039/d1ta06149f

rsc.li/materials-a

## 1. Introduction

With the rapid development of the human economy, the ensuing energy crisis becomes more and more prominent. At present, non-renewable traditional fossil fuels (coal, natural gas, methane, *etc.*) lead to serious environmental pollution;<sup>1-3</sup> therefore, a new approach to maintain energy sustainability has been put forward through hydrogen generation.<sup>4-6</sup> Currently, the electrocatalytic hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) from the water-splitting reaction, which offers scalable hydrogen production with clean and environmental characteristics, draws considerable research attention.<sup>7-9</sup> Compared to acidic media for the HER, alkaline media exhibit more advantages benefiting from their stable output, low corrosion susceptibility, and high product purity.<sup>10-12</sup> Nevertheless, electrocatalysts always suffer

from high overpotentials and large energy consumption due to the sluggish kinetics for the alkaline HER ( $2H_2O + 2e \rightarrow H_2 + 2OH^-$ ), which is unfavorable for their practical application in electrolysis. Consequently, highly efficient electrocatalysts with striking stability and low cost need to be rationally designed to boost the reaction kinetics for alkaline HER.

Hitherto, several earth-abundant electrocatalysts, such as alloys,13 transition-metal nitrides,14 phosphides,15 and sulfides, 16 have been successfully developed for alkaline HER, but their electrocatalytic activity is still far lower than that of Ptbased electrocatalysts. Although Pt is generally considered as the highest activity catalyst for the HER owing to the neutral thermal Gibbs free energy of hydrogen adsorption and the low energy barrier of forming hydrogen molecules, 17-19 its performance is seriously limited in alkaline solutions by a slow rate for water dissociation (the Volmer step), resulting in approximately 2 to 3 orders of magnitude lower than that in acidic HER.<sup>20,21</sup> Therefore, boosting the dissociation of water plays a pivotal role in improving the alkaline HER of Pt electrocatalysts. Moreover, the catalyst cost is also a major bottleneck for the electrolytic water industry. Hence, a feasible strategy to dramatically reduce the Pt loading while maintaining high performance should be established. Nowadays, interfacial engineering has been widely used to design efficient electrocatalysts utilizing the synergistic effect of two or even multiple components. 18,22-24 It is demonstrated that heterojunctions by interface engineering, where electrocatalytic reactions usually occur, can significantly promote electron transfer, highly

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>a</sup>College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Henan Key Laboratory of Function-Oriented Porous Materials, Luoyang Normal University, Luoyang 471934, China. E-mail: myclxm@163.com

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>b</sup>School of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Science and Technology Beijing, Beijing 100083, China

<sup>&#</sup>x27;Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Clear Water Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong, China. E-mail: hhuangae@connect.ust.hk

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>d</sup>School of Materials Science & Engineering, University of Jinan, Jinan, 250022, P. R. China. E-mail: mse\_yuancz@ujn.edu.cn

 $<sup>\</sup>dagger$  Electronic supplementary information (ESI) available. See DOI: 10.1039/d1ta06149f

 $<sup>\</sup>ddagger$  These authors contributed equally to this work.

preserve exposed active sites, easily tune the intermediate adsorption/desorption energies in electrocatalytic reactions, and thereby manipulate the catalytic ability.25-27 According to previous reports, coupling Pt with transition metal hydroxides can decidedly accelerate the kinetics of water dissociation during the alkaline HER through interfacial engineering, which can synergistically promote the alkaline HER activity and effectively improve Pt utilization. 10,20,28 For instance, in the Pt/ Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> heterojunction structure, Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> provides active sites for cleaving H-OH bonds, and thereby accelerates dissociation of water to atomic reactive hydrogen intermediates, which are subsequently adsorbed on the nearby Pt surfaces and recombine into H2 molecules via either the Heyrovsky or the Tafel step.29,30 In a pioneering study, Markovic and co-workers fabricated a heterostructured electrocatalyst by depositing ultrathin Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> clusters on a Pt electrode, which showed improved catalytic activity for the alkaline HER which was up to eight times higher than that of the pristine Pt.30 Likewise, Yin et al. reported the synthesis of a Pt/Ni(OH)2 nanocatalyst by a facile wet-chemical reduction of Pt nanowires (38 wt%) on singlelayered Ni(OH)2 nanosheets,28 and its HER activity is about one order of magnitude higher than that of a commercial Pt/C catalyst. Similarly, Pt nanocrystals with a content of 43 wt% coated on single-layer Ni(OH)2 nanosheets were also fabricated,31 and displayed a fivefold enhancement in the catalytic activity in 0.1 M KOH and a reduction of about 130 mV in the overpotential compared to that of commercial Pt/C. Moreover, in comparison to powder catalysts, self-supported electrocatalysts directly constructed on substrates (carbon cloth, nickel foam, titanium foil, copper foam, stainless mesh, and so on) have many advantages, such as (1) eliminating binders to expose more catalytically active sites, (2) enabling larger loading amounts with abundant active sites, (3) preventing the shedding of the catalysts from the substrates in the process of water splitting by strong seamless and adhesive integration between the catalysts and substrates, (4) boosting charge transport though well-distributed anchoring of the active catalysts on the substrate, and (5) fast releasing bubbles generated on the electrodes to maintain fresh catalytic active sites. As a common substrate of electrocatalyst heterostructures, nickel foam possesses several advantages, such as high mechanical strength, excellent alkali resistance, and good electrical conductivity, and has been widely used to construct selfsupported electrocatalysts for achieving efficient water splitting.32 Recently, well-dispersed Pt nanodots interfaced with a Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> hybrid on NF substrate were in situ constructed by a two-step method.33 The as-fabricated electrode delivered excellent alkaline HER activity with low overpotentials of 25.9 mV (10 mA cm  $^{-2}$ ) and 211 mV (100 mA cm  $^{-2}$ ), as well as a small Tafel slope of 37.6 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>. Therefore, the construction of the Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> heterojunction on NF is an effective strategy to propel the alkaline HER performance and maximize the utilization efficiency of Pt catalysts. Despite a series of successes that have been achieved in designing Pt/Ni(OH)2 heterojunction structures, the utilization efficiency, activity, and stability of the Pt catalyst still need to be improved simultaneously. Moreover, redistributing the charges

heterostructures can modulate the energy of hydrogen adsorption and water dissociation during alkaline HER, which would thereby dramatically promote hydrogen production.<sup>34–36</sup> To the best of our knowledge, redistributing the charges of the heterostructure formed between Pt and Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> with PVP gels has not been reported so far.

Herein, considering the effect of a third party (PVP gel) on the Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> heterojunction, we successfully constructed a PVP gel encapsulated Pt/Ni(OH)2 heterojunction on NF (PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF) by a simple solution evaporation strategy. As expected, the resulting self-supported electrocatalysts on NF only require overpotentials as low as 12, 37, and  $60 \, \mathrm{mV}$  to deliver current densities of 10, 50, and 100 mA cm $^{-2}$  in 1.0 M KOH media, respectively, and are even superior to the benchmark Pt/C or most reported alkaline HER catalysts. In addition, the catalysts exhibit a low Tafel slope of 21.5 mV  $dec^{-1}$ and prominent long-term stability of up to 50 h without any obvious degradation. Moreover, the Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> heterojunction on NF encapsulated by PVP gels shows a low Pt content (0.35 wt%), which is beneficial for enhancing the utilization efficiency of Pt. Furthermore, compared to the Tafel slopes and the electron state of Pt/Ni(OH)2 before and after PVP gel covering, it can be concluded that the PVP gel can not only facilitate water dissociation to provide enough H<sup>+</sup> protons, but can also accelerate the desorption of Had to boost the HER kinetics through redistributing the charges of Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>. DFT calculations were employed to investigate the special role of PVP in the alkaline hydrogen evolution process. The results show that PVP molecules at the interface can reduce the dissociation energy barrier of the water molecule and optimize the hydrogen adsorption-desorption energetics of the Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> heterostructure, achieving high performance for alkaline HER. Briefly, our work provides an important strategy for the engineering construction of Pt/Ni(OH)2 heterostructures and improving the utilization efficiency of Pt-based catalysts.

# 2. Experimental section

#### 2.1 Materials preparation

2.1.1 Synthesis of the PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF sample. All the chemicals used here are analytical reagents and do not require further purification. In a typical synthesis, a piece of NF ( $1 \times 3$  cm) was pretreated with 3 M HCl solution via ultrasonic cleaning for 15 min and subsequently rinsed with ethanol and deionized water several times to remove the surface impurities. 100 mg of PVP and 150  $\mu$ L of chloroplatinic acid (20 mg mL<sup>-1</sup>) were firstly dissolved in 20 mL of deionized water by magnetic stirring. The obtained solution (pH 5.2) and the cleaned NF substrate were transferred into a 50 mL Teflon liner and heated at 180 °C in an oven for 5 h. Afterward, the substrate was washed and dried at 80 °C overnight. The as-synthesized sample was denoted as PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF. To unravel the effect of PVP, control experiments were also carried out via only changing the PVP contents with 40, 70, and 130 mg under the same operating conditions.

2.1.2 Synthesis of the Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF sample. The control sample of Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF was prepared using an identical process to PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF in the absence of PVP.

Synthesis of the PVP@NF sample. As the reference sample, PVP@NF was fabricated using the same procedure without the addition of chloroplatinic acid.

2.1.4 Synthesis of the Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF sample. As the reference sample, Ni(OH)2@NF was also synthesized under the same conditions without the addition of PVP and chloroplatinic acid. 310 µL of hydrochloric acid (1 M) was added into 20 mL of deionized water. Subsequently, the obtained solution (pH 5.2) and the cleaned NF substrate were put in a 50 mL Teflon liner and maintained at 180 °C for 5 h. Finally, the substrate was washed and dried at 80 °C overnight.

#### 2.2 Electrochemical measurements

All the electrochemical characterization studies were performed in a three-electrode system on a CHI 660E electrochemical analyzer (Shanghai Chenhua, China) at room temperature. The studied materials grown on NF were employed as the working electrode, while Hg/HgO and a graphite rod were used as the reference and counter electrodes, respectively. All the measurements were conducted in 1.0 M KOH electrolyte (pH 14.26) and the potentials were converted with respect to the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) using the equation  $E_{RHE} =$  $E_{\mathrm{Hg/HgO}}$  + 0.098 + 0.0591  $\times$  pH, and IR compensation based on the solution resistance was applied to correct the polarization curves ( $E_{IR\text{-corrected}} = E_{\text{original}} - I \times R_s$ ). The working electrode was conditioned with 100 cycles of cycling voltammetry (CV) to reach a stable state within the potential window of -0.9 to -1.2 V (vs. Hg/HgO) at a scan rate of 100 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. The linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves were collected with a scan rate of 2 mV s<sup>-1</sup> under an argon saturated atmosphere. Tafel plots were derived from LSV at low overpotentials fitted to the Tafel equation:  $\eta = b \log j + a$ , where  $\eta$  is the overpotential, j is the current density, and b is the Tafel slope. The chronopotentiometry curve was obtained by a durability test at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. The electrochemical surface area (ECSA) was obtained by conducting CV in the range of 0.1-0.2 V (vs. RHE) at the following scanning rates: 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, and 70 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. The current density differences  $(\Delta i/2 = j_a/2 - j_c/2)$ 2,  $j_a$  and  $j_c$  are the anode and cathode current density, respectively) were plotted against scan rates, and the slopes can be used to derive the double-layer capacitance  $(C_{dl})$  and electrochemical surface area (ECSA). EIS measurements were conducted at a potential of -0.1 V (vs. RHE) in the frequency range of 100 kHz to 0.1 Hz with a perturbation of 5 mV. As a comparison, benchmark commercial Pt/C (20%) on NF was also prepared. Firstly, 5 mg of the Pt/C sample was dispersed into a 0.5 mL mixture of isopropanol (0.48 mL) and Nafion (0.02 mL, 5 wt%) to form the catalyst ink. Then, 50 μL of the catalyst ink was drop cast onto 0.5 cm<sup>2</sup> NF and dried in air.

#### 2.3 Characterization

Powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) measurements were carried out on a Bruker D8 advance setup using a Cu- $K_{\alpha}$  source ( $\lambda = 1.5418$ Å) at an operating tube voltage of 40 kV and current of 40 mA. The morphologies were obtained by field emission microscopy (FESEM, ZEISS-Merlin) and transmission electron microscopy

(TEM, JEM-2100F) coupled with energy dispersive X-ray (EDX) mapping. High-angle annular dark-field scanning TEM (HAADF-STEM) patterns were obtained on a FEI Tecnai G<sup>2</sup> F20 stwin high-resolution transmission electron microscope operating at 200 kV. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was conducted on a PerkinElmer Model PHI 5600 XPS system with a resolution of 0.3-0.5 eV from a monochromatic aluminum anode X-ray source. Inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectroscopy (ICP-AES, Optima 5300 DV, PerkinElmer, USA) of samples was conducted to evaluate the metal content. It should be mentioned that the Pt content is obtained with the sample scraped from an integrated electrode (PVP@Pt/ Ni(OH)2@NF) excluding the Ni substrate or an integrated electrode including the Ni substrate respectively. Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectrometry (IR Spirit, Shimadzu) was used to check the chemical structure of the products. High-resolution atomic force microscopy (AFM) (Park Systems) was applied to observe the shape of PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF.

#### 2.4 First-principles calculations

Theoretical simulations were conducted by adopting the DFT algorithm37 with the consideration of the generalized gradient approximation (GGA) and the Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof (PBE) functionals38,39 as implemented in the Vienna ab initio simulation package. The pristine configuration models of a 4 × 4 Pt (111) slab,  $3 \times 3$  Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> slab with OH termination, and  $3 \times 3$ Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> heterostructures with a Pt (111) monolayer (7 Pt atoms) coating, and additional single PVP molecule adsorption were constructed. All atoms and the lattice were fully relaxed until energy convergence was reached with 10<sup>-5</sup> eV. In all considered cases, the total slab layers were set to 40 Å to mimic the surface environment and avoid the periodic boundary effect.40 Furthermore, in the calculations of H, OH, and H<sub>2</sub>O adsorption/ desorption on the Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> surfaces with a Pt (111) monolayer (Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>) and additional single PVP molecule adsorption (PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>), the bottom three layers of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> were fixed, whereas the remaining layers and adsorbates were fully relaxed. The energy cut-off was set to 400 eV and  $3 \times 3 \times 1$  kpoint mesh was sampled. The hydrogen evolution reaction was determined by the hydrogen atom adsorption free energy, which is defined as  $\Delta G = \Delta E + E_{\rm zpe} - T \Delta S$ , where  $E_{\rm zpe}$  and  $\Delta S$  are the zero-point energy and the entropy differences between the adsorbed H and gas H<sub>2</sub> phase, respectively, and T is the ambient temperature. The energy barrier calculations of H2O dissociation were performed by the climbing image (CI) nudged elastic band method.41,42 And the OH desorption energies were measured by the energy difference between the isolated OH existence and corresponding OH adsorption on all simulated cases. The charge distributions in the Pt/Ni(OH)2 and PVP@Pt/ Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> surfaces were studied by Bader charge analysis.<sup>43</sup>

#### Results and discussion 3.

The irregular morphology of Ni(OH)2@NF is presented in Fig. S1.† wherein the high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) image shows that the lattice spacing of  $\sim$ 0.175 nm is well consistent

Scheme 1 Illustration of the synthesis procedure for the as-fabricated Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF and PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF

with the (102) plane of  $Ni(OH)_2$  (Fig. S1c†), indicating that Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> can be in situ generated on NF under acidic conditions, in accordance with previous reports. 44,45 Considering the higher reduction potential of the  $PtCl_6^{2-}/Pt$  pair (1.484 V, vs. SHE) and  $H^+/H_2$  (0 V, vs. SHE) pair versus the  $Ni^{2+}/Ni$  pair (-0.26 V, vs. SHE), the Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> heterostructure could be fabricated through galvanic replacement in acidic media. 46 The NF acts not only as a reducing agent but also as a substrate for the in situ synthesis of Pt and Ni(OH)2. The synthetic process of Pt/ Ni(OH)2@NF and PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF is illustrated in Scheme 1. The microstructures of Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF and PVP@Pt/ Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF were determined by FESEM, TEM, and HRTEM. As displayed in Fig. 1a, b and S2a† for Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF, the Pt nanoparticles with an average diameter of ~1.5 nm are uniformly distributed on the surface of Ni(OH)2 nanosheets with a length of about 500 nm. The corresponding EDX result (Fig. S2b†) shows the presence and distribution of Pt, Ni, O, and C elements, where the presence of a small amount of C stems from the conductive tape. Meanwhile, the homogeneous distribution of Pt, Ni, and O elements as displayed in the elemental mapping images further proves the uniformity of the as-formed heterostructure (Fig. S2c†). As seen in Fig. 1c, the HRTEM image clearly exhibits the interface between the (111) plane of Pt and the (102) plane of Ni(OH)2, corresponding to the lattice fringe spacings of 0.226 and 0.175 nm, respectively. Furthermore, it can be observed from Fig. S1d† that NF is encapsulated in PVP gels, manifesting good contact between PVP and NF. Therefore, the Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF heterostructure may be successfully encapsulated by PVP gels, while the reaction between H<sub>2</sub>PtCl<sub>6</sub> and NF involved PVP. As schematically shown in Fig. 1d and e, the morphology of PVP@Pt/ Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF is similar to that of the PVP@NF sample, but the length of the Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> nanosheet reduces to about 3 nm (Fig. 1e) compared with that of the Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> nanosheet in the Pt/ Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF heterostructure, indicating that PVP can adjust the size of the as-formed Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> nanosheet. The AFM test was further carried out. The representative high-resolution AFM image in Fig. S3† shows the Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> nanosheet with a length of around 2-5 nm and an average thickness of about 7-9 nm. Besides, the thickness of the PVP gel is about 200 nm (Fig. S4†). Moreover, the FTIR results strongly verified that the Pt/ Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF samples are encapsulated by PVP gels (Fig. S5†). Interestingly, the PVP gels scraped from PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF can form hydrogels after swelling (Fig. S6†), which is beneficial for adsorbing water molecules in alkaline HER. Meanwhile, the optical photographs before and after HER testing for PVP@Pt/ Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF indicate the presence of PVP gels (Fig. S7†), confirming that the PVP gel is stable and firmly covered on the electrode surface. The lattice fringes with the spacings of 0.226 and 0.175 nm are assigned to the (111) plane of Pt and (102) plane of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> as shown in the HRTEM image (Fig. 1f), and the interfaces between Pt and Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> are also observed. The HAADF-STEM image and its corresponding EDX elemental mapping images reveal that the C, N, O, Ni, and Pt elements are evenly distributed across the entire regions (Fig. 1g). The Pt content in the integrated electrode (PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF) was determined to be 0.35 wt% using an inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrometer. For further proving the low content of Pt, we also tested the Pt content with the sample PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2 scraped from the integrated electrode. The corresponding result still exhibits a low Pt content (0.96%). The ultralow Pt content is beneficial for improving Pt utilization. Based on the above results, it can be concluded that the PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF heterostructure has been successfully constructed.

X-ray powder diffraction was used to identify the crystal structures of PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF, Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF, and Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF. As exhibited in Fig. S8,† there are the same three main peaks assigned to Ni (JCPDS 65-0380) for the above samples. However, the diffraction peaks of Pt and Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> are difficult to observe owing to the low contents of Pt and Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, and their signals are overlapped by the NF substrate. Additionally, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy was also utilized to reveal the elemental compositions, chemical states, and strong electron interactions of the as-synthesized samples. In the spectrum of Ni 2p for Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF (Fig. 2a), the peaks at about

Fig. 1 The FESEM (a), TEM (b), and HRTEM (c) images of the Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF sample. The FESEM (d), TEM (e), HRTEM (f), and HAADF-STEM images with the corresponding elemental mappings (g) images of the PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF sample.

855.9 and 873.5 eV accompanied by two broad satellite (Sat.) peaks are indexed to Ni 2p3/2 and Ni 2p1/2, respectively, and the corresponding energy difference is approximately 17.6 eV, which is characteristic of the Ni(OH)2 phase.<sup>47</sup>–<sup>49</sup> Thus, the XPS result manifests the formation of Ni(OH)2 on the NF surface, which is also certied by the HRTEM result (Fig. S1c†). As seen in Fig. 2b, the peaks of Pt 4f at 72.9 eV and 69.3 eV displays a negative shi for Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF compared to those of Pt/C,

Fig. 2 XPS spectra of (a) Ni 2p for PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF, Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF and Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF, (b) Pt 4f for PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF, Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF and PVP@NF, and (d) N 1s for PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF and PVP@NF.

Pt/C, (c) O 1s for PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF, Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF, Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF and PVP@NF, and (d) N 1s for PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF and PVP@NF.

verifying the partial transfer of electrons from Ni to Pt due to the higher electronegativity of Pt (2.28) than Ni (1.91), which is also observed between Pt (Ru) and Co(OH)2 (Ni(OH)2).44,50 Meanwhile, the binding energy of Ni 2p in Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF shows a positive shift of approximately 0.4 eV in comparison with that of the Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF (Fig. 2a), suggesting strong interactions between Pt and Ni(OH)2 in Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF. The XPS survey and EDX spectra in Fig. S9<sup>†</sup> confirm the presence of Pt, C, N, O, and Ni elements in PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF, coinciding with the above HAADF-STEM results. On the other hand, after PVP gels participated in the Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF system, it can be clearly seen that the binding energies of Pt 4f in PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF have positive shifts compared with that of Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF, revealing that the Pt 4f-orbital loses electrons. For the Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF and Ni(OH)2@NF, the O 1s spectrum with two oxygen contributions is observed in Fig. 2c. Therein, the peak at 531.3 eV can be assigned to hydroxide groups,51-53 and the peak at 532.2 eV belongs to the absorbed molecular water. The peak of hydroxide groups shows no change before and after Pt depositing Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, implying that the electron transfer from Pt atoms to O atoms in hydroxide groups does not happen. Compared with PVP@Pt/ Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF, the peak at 531.1 eV associated with C=O in PVP@NF exhibits a negative shift of 0.4 eV, suggesting that the Pt atom coordinates with O atoms in PVP to form Pt-O ligand bonds with charge transfer from Pt to O atoms.54 Besides, the peak at 399.6 eV corresponding to N 1s in PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF displays a positive shift by 0.2 eV relative to that of PVP@NF (Fig. 2d), illustrating that the N atoms in PVP can interact with Ni<sup>2+</sup> to form a coordinate covalent bond through donating its lone electron pair to  $Ni^{2+}$ . Therefore, PVP can redistribute the interface charges of Pt and  $Ni(OH)_2$  due to the strong electronic effect between PVP and  $Pt/Ni(OH)_2$ , which may improve the electrocatalytic performance.

The electrocatalytic performance of PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF was measured by analyzing the IR-corrected HER polarization curves. Additionally, the HER performances of NF, commercial Pt/C (20 wt%), PVP@NF, Ni(OH)2@NF, and Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF were also evaluated under the same conditions for comparison. As demonstrated in Fig. 3a and b, satisfactorily, the overpotentials of PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF at 10, 50, and 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> are only 12, 37, and 60 mV, respectively, far lower than those of Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF (37, 94, 146 mV), Pt/C (34, 89, 144 mV), Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF (205, 290, 307 mV), PVP@NF (266, 370, 420 mV), and NF (247, 344, 387 mV). Obviously, the catalysts based on the Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> system have an excellent activity for alkaline HER. Meanwhile, PVP can remarkably improve the electrocatalytic performance of Pt/Ni(OH)2 through a synergistic effect. It is worth noting that the overpotential of PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF is also comparable to or even smaller than those of Pt-based and other reported catalysts in alkaline electrolyte (Table S1†). To gain insight into the kinetics of HER, the corresponding Tafel slope was obtained. The fastest kinetics of PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2@-NF was confirmed by its much smaller Tafel slope (21.5 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ) than Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF (52.2 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ), Pt/C (35.4 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ), Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF (152.2 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ), PVP@NF (133.5 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), and NF (101.7 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) (Fig. 3c), indicating that the chemical recombination of Hads is the rate-determining step with the Volmer-Tafel mechanism, and PVP can boost the HER

Fig. 3 (a) LSV curves, (b) overpotentials, (c) Tafel plots, (d) electrochemical double-layer capacitances, and (e) Nyquist plots of NF, Pt/C, PVP@NF, Ni(OH)2@NF, Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF, and PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF. (f) LSV curves of PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF before and after 5000 cyclic voltammetry. (g) Chronopotentiometry test of Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF and PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for 50 h without *IR* compensation.

kinetics. To further clarify the origin of the enhanced electrocatalytic performance, the  $C_{\rm dl}$  of PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF and the comparative samples was measured by cyclic voltammetry, which is linearly proportional to the ECSA.<sup>58-60</sup> As illustrated in Fig. 3d and S10,† PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF presents a considerably higher  $C_{\rm dl}$  (100.8 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>) than Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF (51.5 mF  $cm^{-2}$ ), Pt/C (65.4 mF  $cm^{-2}$ ), Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF (4.9 mF  $cm^{-2}$ ), PVP@NF (0.39 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), and NF (2.8 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>), signifying much more accessible active sites for PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF, which is beneficial to prompt the conversion of more intermediate species to hydrogen, and highlighting the excellent catalytic performance for the HER. Furthermore, the charge-transfer resistance  $(R_{ct})$  was calculated to investigate the electrode reaction kinetics. The Nyquist plots are fitted to an equivalent circuit model (Fig. S11†). Evidently, PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF has an extremely smaller  $R_{ct}$  (0.85  $\Omega$ ) than Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF (3.38  $\Omega$ ), Pt/C (2.81  $\Omega$ ), Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF (60.8  $\Omega$ ), PVP@NF (120.6  $\Omega$ ), and NF (338.4  $\Omega$ ) as shown in Fig. 3e and Table S2.† The smallest  $R_{ct}$  in PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF may be attributed to the interfacial charge redistribution and seamless contact between the catalyst and NF as well as its binder-free feature, and enables much faster electron transport and lower charge-transfer resistance during the HER on PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF, thus promising a higher HER activity. Furthermore, to investigate the intrinsic catalytic activity of the electrocatalyst, the exchange current density  $(j_0)$  was calculated by extrapolating the Tafel plot (Fig. S12†). Remarkably, jo for PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF can reach as high as 2.69 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. Such high  $j_0$  can even exceed those of the Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF sample (1.82 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) and benchmark Pt/ C  $(0.25 \text{ mA cm}^{-2})$ , indicating outstanding intrinsic catalytic activity of the PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF towards the HER. As mentioned above, even though PVP gels show poor performance for the HER, they can strikingly reduce the overpotential, Tafel slope, and charge-transfer resistance, and apparently increase electrochemical active sites after introducing PVP in the Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF system, indicating important roles of PVP in catalytic alkaline HER. Apart from the catalytic activity, stability is also a significant benchmark for HER electrocatalysts. The stability of PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF was assessed by accelerated potential CV at a rate of 100 mV  $\rm s^{-1}$  in 1 M KOH solution. Encouragingly, the polarization curves display no significant difference after 5000 CV cycles (Fig. 3f), indicating impressive catalytic stability of the PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF. Meanwhile, the durability was further validated by the chronopotentiometry test at a constant current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> in 1.0 M KOH electrolyte. As depicted in Fig. 3g, the potential shows negligible degradation during the chronopotentiometry test, showing that PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF could work effectively in 1 M KOH for at least 50 h. In contrast, the potential of Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF decreased rapidly within only 12 h. Moreover, the morphology and surface chemical state of the sample after a long-term stability test were analyzed by FESEM, TEM, EDX, and XPS again. The morphology is well preserved (Fig. S13a, b and d†), except that the surface is rougher owing to the release of H<sub>2</sub> gas, and the EDX and element mapping images demonstrate the uniform distribution of Pt, Ni, N, C, and O elements (Fig. S13b and c†). In addition, the survey XPS spectrum in Fig. S13e-g† affirms that the chemical states have no obvious changes. Besides, the effects of PVP contents on the morphology and electrocatalytic performance for PVP@Pt/ Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF were also investigated. As presented in Fig. S14,† when the PVP content is below 100 mg, the morphology is similar to that of the Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF sample. Particularly, it can be found that the Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> nanosheets are encapsulated by PVP gels with 70 mg PVP. However, the stability and activity are gradually reduced with the decreasing PVP content (Fig. S15†). It should be mentioned that the morphology remains unchanged when the amount of PVP exceeds 100 mg as shown in Fig. S16a and b.† However, the overpotential slightly decreases (Fig. S16c†); it may be caused by the reduced active sites, which is proved by the decreasing C<sub>dl</sub> in Fig. S16d.† Despite this, the sample synthesized with 130 mg PVP still exhibits good stability (Fig. S16e†). Moreover, from Fig. S17,† it can be concluded that optimal PVP mass endows PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF with larger  $C_{\rm dl}$ , resulting in excellent HER activity. All the aforementioned results highlight the excellent performance of the as-prepared PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF toward the alkaline HER, and PVP gels play a critical role in enhancing the activity and stability, as well as tuning the morphology of Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF.

Generally, the reaction pathway for HER activities under alkaline conditions includes the following steps: the initial catalyst-H2O adsorption, H2O dissociation (Volmer), subsequent desorption of OH and H intermediates, as well as H2 generation (Tafel or Heyrovsky).61 Based on the Tafel results (Fig. 3c), Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF exhibits a much greater Tafel slope of 52.2 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> compared with PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF, indicating that the HER pathway on the surface of Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF involves water dissociation (the Volmer step,  $H_2O + Pt/Ni(OH)_2 + e^- \rightarrow$ H<sub>ad</sub>-Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> + OH<sup>-</sup>) and hydrogen recombination (the Heyrovsky step,  $H_2O + H_{ad} - Pt/Ni(OH)_2 + e^- \rightarrow H_2 + Pt/Ni(OH)_2 +$ OH<sup>-</sup>). When the Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> is covered by PVP gels, the corresponding Tafel slope decreases to 21.5 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, implying that the HER pathway for PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF follows water dissociation (the Volmer step,  $H_2O + PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)_2 + e^- \rightarrow$ H<sub>ad</sub>-PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> + OH<sup>-</sup>) and hydrogen recombination (the Tafel step,  $2H_{ad}$ -PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>  $\rightarrow$  H<sub>2</sub> + 2PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>). Compared to the Tafel slopes and the electron state of Pt/ Ni(OH)2 before and after PVP gel covering (Fig. 2), it can be concluded that the PVP gel can not only facilitate the water dissociation to provide enough H<sup>+</sup> protons, but can also accelerate the desorption of Had to boost the HER kinetics through redistributing the charges of Pt/Ni(OH)2. To comprehend the fundamental mechanism of the HER performance on the PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> surface, density functional theory calculations were performed on the Pt (111) surface, Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> surface, and Ni(OH)2 surface with Pt coverage (Pt/Ni(OH)2) and with additional PVP adsorption (PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2). There is no doubt that the PVP content has an important impact on the hybrid electrocatalyst performance; some qualitative conclusions could be drawn from the first-principles calculations. Restricted by the calculation ability and slab sizes, only the PVP molecule is considered in the DFT calculations. Furthermore, for the PVP coverage on the Pt/Ni(OH)2, the local electronic difference would make an impact on the H2O splitting and HER process. To verify the conclusion, we established another slab model with a different PVP content. Compared with the electron depletion PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2 surface with a single PVP molecule (Fig. 4b), the calculated results also showed a similar electron depletion (0.1062 e<sup>-</sup> and 0.1058 e<sup>-</sup> per Ni atom) of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> in the PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> surface with two different PVP contents, as shown in Fig. S18.† Therefore, it is feasible to use a PVP singlemolecule for building the model in our work. Typically, as shown in Fig. 4a, the heterostructure of the Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> surface with Pt (111) partial coverage and PVP adsorption performs with good compatibilities. Good affinity and chemical interactions of the Pt-PVP complex on the Ni(OH)2 surface were demonstrated by the obvious charge density difference shown in Fig. 4b. Considering the reaction pathway for HER activities in alkaline media, we evaluated the HER performances of all considered

Fig. 4 (a) Optimized configuration of the PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> catalyst surface. The silver, red, pink, blue, brown, and orange balls represent Ni, O, H, Pt, C, and N atoms, respectively. (b) Charge density difference of the PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> catalyst surface. The yellow and blue areas represent electron gain and loss, respectively. (c) Electronic densities of state of Pt (111), Ni(OH)2, Pt/Ni(OH)2, and PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2, respectively. The Fermi energy level is set to zero. (d) H<sub>2</sub>O dissociation energy profile for different substrate surfaces. The initial and final optimized configurations of H<sub>2</sub>O adsorption and dissociation on the Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> surfaces are given on the right side. (e) Adsorption free energy profile of the HER for different substrate surfaces.

cases according to the above-mentioned steps. Normally, adequate H<sub>2</sub>O adsorption energy guarantees effective H<sub>2</sub>O adsorption on the catalyst surface, which is represented as the initial step during the HER process. As shown in Fig. S19a and c,† all simulated catalyst surfaces exhibit negative H2O adsorption energies, indicating feasible H2O adsorption abilities of all cases. Particularly, Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> showed the largest H<sub>2</sub>O

adsorption energy, followed by Pt/Ni(OH)2 and PVP@Pt/ Ni(OH)2. For the H2O dissociation process on all catalyst surfaces, the CI-nudged elastic band method was adopted to evaluate the H2O dissociation ability of OH and H intermediates. The results are depicted in Fig. 4d. It shows that the Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> surface has the lowest H<sub>2</sub>O splitting energy, indicating the most possible H<sub>2</sub>O dissociation process happening initially on the Ni(OH)2 surface in the experiment. Particularly, the initial and final states of H<sub>2</sub>O dissociation on the Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2 catalyst surfaces are shown in Fig. 4d. It indicates that H<sub>2</sub>O prefers to dissociate near the edge of the Pt cluster and close to the Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> surface, demonstrating feasible H<sub>2</sub>O dissociation on the Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>. However, as shown in Fig. S19b and d,† the largest OH desorption energy on the Ni(OH)2 surface indicates tough intermediate OH desorption from the catalyst, thus obstructing adequate active sites for readsorption of H<sub>2</sub>O molecules. In contrast, the Pt (111) surface could show lower OH desorption energies and demonstrate feasible intermediate OH desorption when Pt and Ni(OH)2 are combined. It is mentioned that it makes no sense to concentrate on the exact calculated values as for the complex electrochemical conditions and considerations in the actual experiment. Moreover, to evaluate the intrinsic HER activity, the Gibbs free energies of hydrogen adsorption on Pt (111), Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>, and PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> surfaces were calculated. As depicted in Fig. 4e, PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2 shows the most feasible Gibbs free energy of hydrogen adsorption when PVP molecules are introduced, superior to its counterparts such as pristine Pt (111) and Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> surfaces. Subsequently, the electronic densities of state of all studied cases were calculated to investigate the effect of the Pt atom d band center on HER activity. As exhibited in Fig. 4c, compared to the Pt/Ni(OH)2, the d band center of Pt atoms is left-shifted from the Fermi energy level when PVP is introduced, which indicates the coupling between the H atom/proton capture for the PVP-Pt complex with the Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> substrate. This is also demonstrated by the larger electron depletion (0.106 e<sup>-</sup> per Ni atom) of Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> in the PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> surface compared to (0.101 e<sup>-</sup> per Ni atom) Ni(OH)2 in the Pt/Ni(OH)2 surface, leading to a left shift of the Pt d orbital. Overall, all the above results conclude that the Pt atoms on the PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2 catalyst surface provide the active centers for the catalytic HER process and reveal the synergistic effect between the H<sub>2</sub>O dissociation on the Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> substrate and HER activity on the PVP-Pt clusters.

### 4. Conclusion

In summary, we have demonstrated that redistributing the charges of heterostructures induced by PVP gels can intrinsically boost the alkaline HER catalysis of Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF. Notably, the designed PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)2@NF catalysts exhibit excellent electrocatalytic performance, such as a low 12 mV overpotential at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, a small Tafel slope of 21.5 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, and outstanding stability for at least 50 h in alkaline solution, and greatly rival the benchmark Pt/C and the vast majority of advanced alkaline HER catalysts. DFT calculations and experiments disclose that the enhanced alkaline HER of PVP@Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>@NF could be mainly attributed to (1) the exposure of more catalytic active sites resulting from the heterostructure, (2) the efficient and fast water dissociation step over the Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> promoter, (3) fast charge transfer stemming from the high conductivity of NF, and (4) optimal electronic redistribution caused by the strong synergistic effect between PVP and Pt/Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>. The reconstruction of the heterojunction

with PVP gels could offer a new strategy to improve the activity and stability of Pt-based catalysts.

# **Author contributions**

H. Huang, C. Z. Yuan and X. M. Liu conceived the idea, designed the experiments and supervised the work. J. Li and B. Li conducted the experiments and characterization studies, and wrote the manuscript draft. N. T. Wu performed the XPS measurements and analyzed the data. D. L. Guo carried out the FESEM measurements. S. Yan contributed to designing the schematic illustrations. All authors discussed the results and commented on the manuscript.

# Conflicts of interest

There are no conflicts of interest to declare.

# Acknowledgements

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 51804156 and 51904152), the Program for Science & Technology Innovation Talents in Universities of Henan Province (Grant No. 20HASTIT020), the Program for Innovative Research Team (in Science and Technology) in Universities of Henan Province (Grant No. 21IRTSTHN004), and the Key Specialized Research and Development Breakthrough (Science and Technology) in Henan Province (Grant No. 212102210214).

#### References

- L. Zhang, Q. Wang, R. Si, Z. Song, X. Lin, M. N. Banis,
   K. Adair, J. Li, K. Doyle-Davis, R. Li, L. M. Liu, M. Gu and
   X. Sun, Small, 2021, 17, 2004453.
- 2 J. Hao, J. Liu, D. Wu, M. Chen, Y. Liang, Q. Wang, L. Wang, X.-Z. Fu and J.-L. Luo, *Appl. Catal.*, *B*, 2021, 281, 119510.
- 3 S. Riyajuddin, K. Azmi, M. Pahuja, S. Kumar, T. Maruyama, C. Bera and K. Ghosh, *ACS Nano*, 2021, **15**, 5586–5599.
- 4 R. Subbaraman, D. Tripkovic, K. C. Chang, D. Strmcnik, A. P. Paulikas, P. Hirunsit, M. Chan, J. Greeley, V. Stamenkovic and N. M. Markovic, *Nat. Mater.*, 2012, 11, 550–557.
- 5 W. Chen, G.-B. Huang, H. Song and J. Zhang, *J. Mater. Chem. A*, 2020, **8**, 20963–20969.
- 6 J. Li, X. Liu and J. Zhang, ChemSusChem, 2020, 13, 2996–3004.
- 7 J. Zhang, R. Cui, C. Gao, L. Bian, Y. Pu, X. Zhu, X. Li and W. Huang, *Small*, 2019, 15, 1904688.
- 8 Y. Cui, R. Zhang, J. Zhang, Z. Wang, H. Xue, W. Mao and W. Huang, *Mater. Today Energy*, 2018, 7, 44–50.
- 9 J. Xu, C. Zhang, H. Liu, J. Sun, R. Xie, Y. Qiu, F. Lü, Y. Liu, L. Zhuo, X. Liu and J. Luo, *Nano Energy*, 2020, 70, 104529.
- 10 Z. Xing, C. Han, D. Wang, Q. Li and X. Yang, *ACS Catal.*, 2017, 7, 7131–7135.
- 11 H. Jin, X. Wang, C. Tang, A. Vasileff, L. Li, A. Slattery and S. Z. Qiao, *Adv. Mater.*, 2021, 33, 2007508.

- 12 J. Li, H. Huang, X. X. Cao, H. H. Wu, K. M. Pan, Q. B. Zhang, N. T. Wu and X. Liu, Chem. Eng. J., 2021, 416, 127677.
- 13 W. Du, Y. Shi, W. Zhou, Y. Yu and B. Zhang, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2021, 133, 7127-7131.
- 14 H. Jin, Q. Gu, B. Chen, C. Tang, Y. Zheng, H. Zhang, M. Jaroniec and S.-Z. Qiao, Chem, 2020, 6, 2382-2394.
- 15 Z. Pu, T. Liu, I. S. Amiinu, R. Cheng, P. Wang, C. Zhang, P. Ji, W. Hu, J. Liu and S. Mu, Adv. Funct. Mater., 2020, 30, 2004009.
- 16 S. Anantharaj, H. Sugime and S. Noda, Chem. Eng. J., 2021, 408. 127275.
- 17 D. Liu, H. Ai, M. Chen, P. Zhou, B. Li, D. Liu, X. Du, K. H. Lo, K. W. Ng, S. P. Wang, S. Chen, G. Xing, J. Hu and H. Pan, Small, 2021, 17, 2007557.
- 18 J. Zhu, Y. Guo, F. Liu, H. Xu, L. Gong, W. Shi, D. Chen, P. Wang, Y. Yang, C. Zhang, J. Wu, J. Luo and S. Mu, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2021, 133, 12436-12442.
- 19 W. Li, Z.-Y. Hu, Z. Zhang, P. Wei, J. Zhang, Z. Pu, J. Zhu, D. He, S. Mu and G. Van Tendeloo, J. Catal., 2019, 375, 164-170.
- 20 N. Danilovic, R. Subbaraman, D. Strmenik, K. C. Chang, A. P. Paulikas, V. R. Stamenkovic and N. M. Markovic, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2012, 51, 12495-12498.
- 21 Q. Liu, Z. Yan, J. Gao, E. Wang and G. Sun, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces, 2020, 12, 24683-24692.
- 22 G. Yang, Y. Jiao, H. Yan, Y. Xie, A. Wu, X. Dong, D. Guo, C. Tian and H. Fu, Adv. Mater., 2020, 32, 2000455.
- 23 C. Liu, T. Gong, J. Zhang, X. Zheng, J. Mao, H. Liu, Y. Li and Q. Hao, Appl. Catal., B, 2020, 262, 118245.
- 24 J. Wei, M. Zhou, A. Long, Y. Xue, H. Liao, C. Wei and Z. J. Xu, Nano-Micro Lett., 2018, 10, 75.
- 25 J. Diao, Y. Qiu, S. Liu, W. Wang, K. Chen, H. Li, W. Yuan, Y. Qu and X. Guo, Adv. Mater., 2020, 32, 1905679.
- 26 Q. Shao, P. Wang and X. Huang, Adv. Funct. Mater., 2019, 29,
- 27 X. Jiang, H. Jang, S. Liu, Z. Li, M. G. Kim, C. Li, Q. Qin, X. Liu and J. Cho, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2021, 60, 4110-4116.
- 28 H. Yin, S. Zhao, K. Zhao, A. Muqsit, H. Tang, L. Chang, H. Zhao, Y. Gao and Z. Tang, Nat. Commun., 2015, 6, 6430.
- 29 X. Yu, J. Zhao, L.-R. Zheng, Y. Tong, M. Zhang, G. Xu, C. Li, J. Ma and G. Shi, ACS Energy Lett., 2017, 3, 237-244.
- 30 R. Subbaraman, D. Tripkovic, D. Strmenik, K. C. Chang, M. Uchimura, A. P. Paulikas, V. Stamenkovic and N. M. Markovic, Science, 2011, 334, 1256-1260.
- 31 L. Wang, Y. Zhu, Z. Zeng, C. Lin, M. Giroux, L. Jiang, Y. Han, J. Greeley, C. Wang and J. Jin, *Nano Energy*, 2017, **31**, 456–461.
- 32 R. Xu, R. Wu, Y. Shi, J. Zhang and B. Zhang, Nano Energy, 2016, 24, 103-110.
- 33 Y. Gu, Y. Wang, J. Shi, M. Yang, Y. Rui, W. An and Y. Men, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy, 2020, 45, 27067-27077.
- 34 J. Li, C. Zhang, H. Ma, T. Wang, Z. Guo, Y. Yang, Y. Wang and H. Ma, Chem. Eng. J., 2021, 414, 128834.
- 35 P. Wang, Z. Pu, W. Li, J. Zhu, C. Zhang, Y. Zhao and S. Mu, J. Catal., 2019, 377, 600-608.
- 36 P. Wang, J. Zhu, Z. Pu, R. Qin, C. Zhang, D. Chen, Q. Liu, D. Wu, W. Li, S. Liu, J. Xiao and S. Mu, Appl. Catal., B, 2021, 296, 120334.

- 37 G. Kresse and J. Furthmuller, Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter Mater. Phys., 1996, 54, 11169-11186.
- 38 M. Ernzerhof and G. E. Scuseria, J. Chem. Phys., 1999, 110, 5029-5036.
- 39 B. Hammer, L. B. Hansen and J. K. Norskov, Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter Mater. Phys., 1999, 59, 7413-7421.
- 40 H. Huang, H.-H. Wu, C. Chi, B. Huang and T.-Y. Zhang, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2019, 7, 8897-8904.
- 41 G. Henkelman and H. Jonsson, J. Chem. Phys., 2000, 113, 9978-9985.
- 42 G. Henkelman, B. P. Uberuaga and H. Jonsson, J. Chem. Phys., 2000, 113, 9901-9904.
- 43 E. Sanville, S. D. Kenny, R. Smith and G. Henkelman, J. Comput. Chem., 2007, 28, 899-908.
- 44 X. Xiao, X. Wang, X. Jiang, S. Song, D. Huang, L. Yu, Y. Zhang, S. Chen, M. Wang, Y. Shen and Z. Ren, Small Methods, 2020, 4, 1900796.
- 45 D. Wang, L. Yang, H. Liu and D. Cao, J. Catal., 2019, 375, 249-256.
- 46 G. Yuan, L. Wang, X. Zhang and Q. Wang, J. Colloid Interface Sci., 2019, 536, 189-195.
- 47 H. B. Li, M. H. Yu, F. X. Wang, P. Liu, Y. Liang, J. Xiao, C. X. Wang, Y. X. Tong and G. W. Yang, Nat. Commun., 2013, 4, 1894.
- 48 J. Yan, Z. Fan, W. Sun, G. Ning, T. Wei, Q. Zhang, R. Zhang, L. Zhi and F. Wei, Adv. Funct. Mater., 2012, 22, 2632-2641.
- 49 X. Yu, J. Zhao and M. Johnsson, Adv. Funct. Mater., 2021, 31, 2101578.
- 50 X. Song, L. Huang, W. He, C. Liu, F. Hu, Y. Jiang, Z. Sun and S. Wei, J. Phys. Chem. C, 2019, 123, 10907-10916.
- 51 C. Lv, X. Wang, L. Gao, A. Wang, S. Wang, R. Wang, X. Ning, Y. Li, D. W. Boukhvalov, Z. Huang and C. Zhang, ACS Catal., 2020, 10, 13323-13333.
- 52 Q.-Q. Chen, X. Yang, C.-C. Hou, K. Li and Y. Chen, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2019, 7, 11062-11068.
- 53 L. Xia, Y. Liao, Y. Qing, H. Xu, Z. Gao, W. Li and Y. Wu, ACS Appl. Energy Mater., 2020, 3, 2996-3004.
- 54 C. Li, Z. Chen, H. Yi, Y. Cao, L. Du, Y. Hu, F. Kong, R. Kramer Campen, Y. Gao, C. Du, G. Yin, I. Y. Zhang and Y. Tong, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2020, 59, 15902-15907.
- 55 J. Wang, Y. Feng, T. Wang, Y. Qiao and K. Chen, ChemNanoMat, 2018, 4, 1160-1167.
- 56 Y. Y. Kannangara, U. A. Rathnayake and J.-K. Song, Chem. Eng. J., 2019, 361, 1235-1244.
- 57 Y. Li, Y. Wang, C.-L. Dong, Y.-C. Huang, J. Chen, Z. Zhang, F. Meng, Q. Zhang, Y. Huang, D. Zhao, L. Gu and S. Shen, Chem. Sci., 2021, 12, 3633-3643.
- 58 Y.-Y. Chen, Y. Zhang, X. Zhang, T. Tang, H. Luo, S. Niu, Z.-H. Dai, L.-J. Wan and J.-S. Hu, Adv. Mater., 2017, 29,
- 59 H. H. Wu, H. Huang, J. Zhong, S. Yu, Q. Zhang and X. C. Zeng, Nanoscale, 2019, 11, 12210-12219.
- 60 Z. Wang, H. H. Wu, Q. Li, F. Besenbacher, Y. Li, X. C. Zeng and M. Dong, Adv. Sci., 2020, 7, 1901382.
- 61 W. Hua, H. H. Sun, F. Xu and J.-G. Wang, Rare Met., 2020, 39, 335-351.