---
source: Li 等 - 2021 - Superhydrophilic Ni‐based Multicomponent Nanorod‐Confined‐Nanoflake Array Electrode Achieves Waste‐B.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 46.431s
generated: 2026-01-10T07:30:44.351783Z
---

# **Superhydrophilic Ni-based Multicomponent Nanorod-Confined-Nanoflake Array Electrode Achieves Waste-Battery-Driven Hydrogen Evolution and Hydrazine Oxidation**

*Yapeng Li, Jianming Li, Qizhu Qian, Xu Jin, Yi Liu, Ziyun Li, Yin Zhu, Yiming Guo, and Genqiang Zhang\**

**The low thermodynamic potential (−0.33 V) and safe by-product of N2/H2O, make utilizing hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR) to replace thermodynamically-unfavorable and kinetically-sluggish oxygen evolution reaction a promising tactic for energy-efficient hydrogen production. However, the complexity of bifunctionality increases difficulties for effective material design, thus hindering the large-scale hydrogen generation. Herein, we present the rationally designed synthesis of superhydrophilic Ni-based multicomponent arrays (Ni NCNAs) composed of 1D nanorod-confined-nanoflakes (2D), which only needs −26 mV of working potential and 47 mV of overpotential to reach 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for HzOR and HER, respectively. Impressively, this Ni NCNA electrode exhibits the top-level bifunctional activity for overall hydrazine splitting (OHzS) with an ultralow voltage of 23 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2 and a record-high current density of 892 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2 at just 0.485 V, also achieves the high-speed hydrogen yield driven by a waste AAA battery for OHzS.**

**1. Introduction**

Electrocatalysis system could act as pivotal parts in coping with the contradiction between the ever-growing energy crisis caused by the gradual depletion of fossil fuel and the everaggravating environmental pollution derived from the excessive carbon emission.[1] Among these, electrocatalytic water splitting is a modular and distributed technology to generate high purity hydrogen (H2) with environmental friendliness, and more importantly, its coupling with the renewable electricity can meet the requirement of decarbonization for the climate-neutrality goal, thus has been considered as an attractive alternative in the

Y. P. Li, Q. Z. Qian, Y. Liu, Z. Y. Li, Y. Zhu, Y. M. Guo, Prof. G. Q. Zhang Hefei National Laboratory for Physical Sciences at the Microscale CAS Key Laboratory of Materials for Energy Conversion Department of Materials Science and Engineering University of Science and Technology of China Hefei 230026, China E-mail: gqzhangmse@ustc.edu.cn Dr. J. M. Li, Dr. X. Jin Research Institute of Petroleum Exploration and Development PetroChina

Beijing 10083, China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202008148.

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202008148**

future H2 economy.[2] Nowadays, various materials have been explored to accelerate the reaction kinetics of water splitting, and the remarkable bifunctional electrocatalysts superior to the state-of-the-art Pt for hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) as well as the benchmarking Ru/Ir based oxides for oxygen evolution reaction (OER) have been reported.[3] Although some extraordinary bifunctional electrocatalysts with the low cell voltage (≈1.5 V) to reach the current density of 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> for overall water splitting (OWS) have also been recorded, the sluggish anodic kinetics, as well as the high thermodynamic potential, still limit the economical H2 generation via electrolyzing water.[4] Fortunately, these restrictions may be circumvented by substituting the sluggish OER with thermodynamically favorable small organic

molecule oxidation, such as hydrazine,[5] urea,[6,7] glucose,[8] ethanol,[9–11] glycerol,[12] primary amines,[13] benzyl alcohol,[14] 5-hydroxymethylfurfural,[15] tetrahydroisoquinolines,[16] etc., in order to push the energy conversion efficiency for energy-efficient H2 production.

Among these smart hybrid electrolysis strategies, utilizing hydrazine oxidation (HzOR, N2H4 + 4OH<sup>−</sup> = N2 + 4H2O +4e−) to replace conventional water oxidation can dramatically shift the thermodynamic potential from 1.23 V to only −0.33 V.[17] Besides, the non-polluting and safe product (N2 and H2) rather than the explosive O2/H2 mixture make hydrazine oxidation assisted H2 evolution technique more attractive due to higher efficiency and better safety.[18] For example, Sun et al. constructed the triple-hierarchical nanoporous Ni(Cu)@NiFeP onto nickel foam as a bifunctional electrocatalyst for HER and HzOR, which requires a cell voltage of 0.491 V to offer 100 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> when assembled into a two-electrode system, 1.43 V lower than the corresponding OWS system.[19] Ding et al. reported Fe-doped CoS2 nanosheets could act as the amazing bifunctional electrocatalyst for hydrazine oxidation-assisted hydrogen evolution, which merely needs 0.95 V of applied voltage to reach the large current density of 500 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> and is 2.35 V lower than that of the corresponding water splitting.[20] Apart from these meaningful breakthroughs, the ruthless situation is that the current electrocatalysts worked well in the two-electrode electrolyzer is far below the criteria of industrial

H<sub>2</sub> generation requiring extremely large current density (500–1000 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>),<sup>[21]</sup> as a result of the difficulty of integrating different active sites suitable for respective catalytic process into a single material, and the limited devotion on the efficient micro/nano-structures for suppressing the gas film caused by the quick accumulation of gas bubble and exposing the active sites quickly under the large current density.<sup>[22]</sup> Hence, the currently imperative yet burdensome task is screening the active materials for bifunctional catalysis of HzOR and HER, and then engineering them with suitable electrode architecture to

meet the large current operation with the small voltage input. Herein, we presented the rationally designed synthesis of superhydrophilic Ni-based multicomponent nanorod-confinednanoflake arrays (Ni NCNA) grown on nickel foam through a facile two-step hydrothermal assembly and the successive thermal annealing at H<sub>2</sub>/Ar atmosphere. Benefiting from the 3D hierarchical structures offering greatly exposed active sites, the superhydrophilic surface guaranteeing the rapid-penetration of electrolyte, the intimate contact between the nanorods and nanoflakes constructing the highway for the electron transfer, as well as the synergistic effect of the Ni-relevant multicomponent modulating the electronic structure, the resultant Ni NCNA exhibits the impressive catalytic performance towards both hydrazine oxidation and hydrogen evolution in alkaline condition. Specifically, it merely needs -26 mV to afford the current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> in 1.0 M KOH/0.3 M N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> for HzOR, and exhibits the small overpotential of 47 mV to reach 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> in 1.0 M KOH for HER, respectively. When using Ni NCNA as both anode and cathode catalyst in a two-electrode electrolyzer for overall hydrazine splitting (OHzS), it requires an ultrasmall voltage of 23 mV to generate 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and achieves the industrial current density of  $892~\text{mA}~\text{cm}^{-2}$  at a record-low input voltage of 0.485 V.

#### 2. Results and Discussion

#### 2.1. Synthesis and Characterization of Ni NCNA

The formation process of Ni NCNA is schematically portrayed in Figure 1a, including a two-step hydrothermal process and the subsequent annealing treatment under H<sub>2</sub>/Ar atmosphere (See details in the Experimental Section). Field emission scanning electron microscope (FE-SEM) images and X-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern (Figures S1a-c and S2, Supporting Information) indicate that the NiMoO4 nanorod arrays with the diameter of ≈100 nm (NiMoO<sub>4</sub> NA) grown on the Ni foam uniformly and densely. The successive hydrothermal treatment induces the formation of 3D hierarchical arrays of NiCoMoO<sub>4</sub> (denoted as NiCoMoO<sub>4</sub> HA) assembled by the nanorod-confined-nanoflake architecture (Figures S1d-f and S2, Supporting Information). The final product almost inherits the topological morphology with the dense distribution on the Ni foam and the broad existence of the 3D hierarchical structure composing of the similar nanoflakes and nanorods substructure (Figure 1b,c and Figure S3, Supporting Information). The diffraction peaks (Upper in Figure 1d) of the sample scratched from Ni foam suggest the appearance of new phases, including Ni (JCPDS No. 70-1849) or NiCo alloy (JCPDS No. 74-5694), besides the

remaining NiMoO<sub>4</sub> (JCPDS No. 45-0142), during the thermal annealing process, which is consistent with the previous literature, see the below analysis of high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) for details.[23] Moreover, the Raman spectroscopy characterization (Down in Figure 1d) detects a set of strong peaks at 144, 187, 282, 340, 369, 815, 882, and 935 cm<sup>-1</sup>, which may be ascribed to MoO<sub>4</sub>.<sup>2-</sup> in NiMoO<sub>4</sub>.<sup>[24]</sup> Three weak peaks that appeared at about 122, 480, and 720 cm<sup>-1</sup> could be assigned to the lattice deformation mode, the deformation of Mo=O stretching mode, and modification of Mo2-O bond of MoO<sub>3-x</sub> species, respectively.<sup>[25]</sup> Besides, a vibrational peak at 435 cm<sup>-1</sup> could be indexed to the Mo<sub>3</sub>O stretching mode of H<sub>x</sub>MoO<sub>3</sub>, which can be further transformed to MoO<sub>3-x</sub>, <sup>[26]</sup> The Raman spectrum implies the structural evolution and coexistence of the major NiMoO4 with a handful of low-valence Mobased oxides due to the reduction effect of H<sub>2</sub>/Ar annealing. To observe the detailed morphology of multicomponent hierarchical arrays, transmission electron microscopy (TEM) has been performed. Figure 1e shows a classical hierarchical structure unit with the coexistence of the nanoflake and nanorod, suggesting the possible formation of a unique nanorod-confined-nanoflake structure during the phase transformation process. The magnified image of the partial nanorod (Figure 1f) displays some dark-colored nano-islands inlaid into the grey rod, implying the coexistence of different components. The fraction of the nanoflake (Figure 1g) possesses the porous feature, which may be caused by the crystallization-induced contraction effect during the thermal annealing process. The high angle annular dark-field scanning TEM (HAADF-STEM) image (Figure 1h) reveals the same nanorod-confined-nanoflake with several nanoparticles decorated on the nanorod matrix coupling porous nanoflakes. The corresponding elemental mapping results exhibit the coexistence of Ni, Co, Mo, and O elements, in which Ni and Co are mainly distributed on the nanoparticles while Mo and O are spread through the whole district. Further, the atomic ratio of Ni: Co: Mo is 36.36: 16.55: 47.09 (Figure S4, Supporting Information), namely the ratio of Ni and Co is about 2, and the content of Mo approaches the total portion of Ni and Co, according to the three random regions of EDS result from SEM analysis. The HAADF-STEM image of nanorod region (Figure S5a, Supporting Information) portrays that the brighter nano-islands scatter into the substrate and the elemental mapping (Figure S5b-f, Supporting Information) demonstrates the condensation of Ni element with the wide distribution of Mo and O elements, and the limited existence of Co elements may stem from the inevitable adsorption of cobalt ion during the second hydrothermal growth. Figure S6 in the supporting information presents the porous and almost homogeneous nanoflake with the isotropous distribution of Ni, Co, Mo, and O elements, suggesting the decomposition and reconstruction of nanoflake during the annealing process. Besides, the precursor of NiMoO<sub>4</sub> NA was also annealed using the same procedure, and the product (named as Ni/NiMoO4 NA) almost inherits the similar morphology (Figure S7, Supporting Information) of NiMoO<sub>4</sub> NA, besides the formation of Ni (Figure S8, Supporting Information). Besides, the thermogravimetric analysis curve (Figure S9, Supporting Information) displays small weight loss from 20 to ≈500 °C, mainly including the removal of adsorbed/ crystal water and the phase transformation. [27] Combing with

**www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com**

**Figure 1.** The formation process, morphological and structural characterizations for Ni NCNA. a) Schematic illustration for the formation process of Ni NCNA electrode on Ni foam. b,c) FE-SEM images. d) XRD pattern (upper) and Raman spectrum (down). e) The TEM analysis of the hierarchical structure, f) the nanorod region, g) and nanoflake region. h) HAADF-STEM image and corresponding elemental mapping results.

the above results, we speculate that the NiCoMoO4 HA intermediate may undergo dehydration and partial decomposition during the annealing treatment under H2/Ar atmosphere, further generate Ni/NiCo and Mo-based oxides, which are mosaicked with the remaining NiMoO4.

In order to evaluate the comprehensive microstructure feature as well as the possible Ni species in Ni NCNA, the systematic HRTEM analysis was executed on a single nanorodconfined-nanoflake unit shown in **Figure 2**a. Two representative rectangle regions labeled as b and c were chosen to perform the deep HRTEM analysis. As indicated, the HRTEM image (Figure 2b) in the nanorod region exhibits the clear lattice fringes in the whole vision, meantime, a well-defined grain boundary marked with the white dotted line can be distinguished, implying the possible strong coupling of different components. To figure out the microstructure, the regions in the left, right, and middle of the grain boundary have been investigated (marked as d, e, f, respectively). The left enlarged region (Figure 2d) can be indexed to the (53-1) and (220) planes of NiMoO4, with the interplanar spacings of 1.69 and 3.39 Å, respectively. The interplanar distance of 2.02 Å in the right magnified district shown in Figure 2e may correspond to the (111) plane of Ni, owing to the main existence of Ni in the nanorod region. The HRTEM analysis of the grain boundary region confirms the coexistence of crystalline Ni and NiMoO4 (Figure 2f), which is in accordance with the XRD result, and could be much helpful for the electrocatalysis process due to the synergism of different constitutes. Then, the bridge area between the nanoflake and nanorod (Figure 2c) labeled as c in Figure 2a offers more microcosmic information about the

**Figure 2.** The microstructural analysis of Ni NCNA. a) The TEM image of a single heterojunction and b,c) the HRTEM analysis of the nanorod region and combined region obtained from the b, c-region in (a), respectively. d–f) The HRTEM images obtained from the corresponding region label as d, e, f in (b), respectively. g–i) The HRTEM images obtained from the corresponding region label as g, h, i in (c), respectively, insets show the matching line profile analysis indicated by the yellow rectangle.

joint, in which the abundant lattice fringes (labeled as g, h, i) imply the better crystallinity besides the few amorphous regions marked as the yellowish irregular pattern, which may represent the Mo-based oxides (MoO3−*x*). Figure 2g represents the amplified g-region in Figure 2c, which displays two kinds of similar lattice fringes with the spacing of 1.96 and 1.97 Å, assignable to the (111) planes of NiCo alloy, as Ni and Co distribute uniformly in the nanoflake region. The nanorod section (Figure 2h) labeled as h in Figure 2c was further investigated and the noticeable lattice plane with a distance of 1.71 Å can be assigned to the (200) plane of Ni. Remarkably, the confined junction (Figure 2i) in the i-region of Figure 2c presents the uniform lattice plane with the d-spacing of 1.72 Å, attributable to the same (200) planes of Ni/NiCo, implying the atomically homologous connection between the nanoflake and nanorod at the hierarchical node, which may further facilitate the charge transfer and boost the structural stability. To identity the Ni species clearly, the other HRTEM images were further analyzed (Figure S10, Supporting Information), and the NiMoO4, Ni as well as NiCo alloy can be well distinguished, matched well with the above XRD result. In a word, two kinds of main structures can be formed, one is Ni/NiCoMoO4, and the other is Ni/NiCo, along with the on-site appearance of MoO3−*x*. All these Ni-based multicomponent heterostructures may assure high activity and robust stability for the HzOR and HER processes.

Next, the X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) is executed to analyze the surface chemical states of the products. The survey spectrum (**Figure 3**a) confirms the elemental mapping results that Ni, Co, Mo, and O exist in the composite. The envelope of Co 2p (Figure 3b) can be deconvoluted into three pairs of peaks, which may belong to Co0 (778.4 eV), Co2<sup>+</sup> (781.5 eV), and the relevant satellite peak (785.8 eV).[28] The deconvoluted high-resolution spectrum of Ni 2p (Figure 3c) shows a sharp peak centered at 852.9 eV, a strong peak at 856.3 eV along with a wide peak at 862.0 eV, which can be assigned to Ni0, Ni2<sup>+</sup>, and the relevant satellite peak in Ni

**Figure 3.** XPS investigation of Ni NCNA. a) The survey spectrum and high-resolution spectra for b) Co 2p, c) Ni 2p, and d) Mo 3d.

NCNA, respectively.[25] To better study the possible charge transfer between Ni, Co, and Mo in Ni NCNA, the compared Ni/NiMoO4 NA was also analyzed by XPS. The survey spectrum (Figure S11, Supporting Information) suggests the existence of Ni, Mo, and O. The Ni0 peak in Ni/NiMoO4 NA (Figure 3c) locates at 852.6 eV, Ni2+ peak situates at 855.9 eV, along with the satellite peak at 861.7 eV, which are all shifted to the lower binding energy. Deconvolution of the Mo highresolution spectrum (Figure 3d) suggests the appearance of low-valence states of Mo (Mo4+ at 229.3 eV, Mo5+ at 230.4 eV) besides the Mo6+ species (232.5 eV), implying the formation of MoO3-*x* and supporting the above Raman analysis.[29] As for the Ni/NiMoO4 NA, the peaks belonging to the low-valent Mo shift to the low energy obviously, along with the slight shift of Mo6<sup>+</sup> peak in the same trend. Moreover, the NiCoMoO4 HA has been treated in Ar gas under 550 °C, the obtained product (denoted as NiCoMoO4 HA Ar) possessing the smoother surface than that of Ni NCNA can be well indexed as NiMoO4, as shown in Figure S12a–c. The XPS investigation (Figure S12d–g) suggests the coexistence of Ni, Co, Mo, and O elements, while all the metal elements just keep their oxidation states, such as Ni2+, Co2+, and Mo6<sup>+</sup>. This means that H2 gas is a key parameter for the formation of Ni/NiCo and the formation of Ni-based multicomponent composites induces the charge transfer between Ni, Co, and Mo, which may boom the electrocatalytic activity. In addition, the atomic ratio of Ni, Co, and Mo calculated from XPS spectra is 35.99%, 17.82%, and 46.19%, respectively, much close to the EDS result.

#### **2.2. Investigation of Electrocatalytic HzOR Activities**

The HzOR activity of the Ni NCNA electrode was evaluated in the conventional three-electrode system with Hg/HgO (1.0 M KOH) as the reference electrode and graphite rod as the counter electrode in 1.0 M KOH with various hydrazine (N2H4) concentrations. The linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves (**Figure 4**a) display that there is no current response without N2H4 addition in the investigated potential of −0.05–0.1 V (versus reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE)), and the current sharply rises once the hydrazine concentration increases to 0.025 M, suggesting the promising catalytic activity for HzOR. When the concentration of N2H4 constantly increases to 0.5 M, the oxidation current first increases and then remains unchanged (Figure S13, Supporting Information), suggesting the full utilization of active sites when the hydrazine concentration reaches 0.3 M. So, the electrolyte containing 1.0 M KOH/0.3 M N2H4 was selected for HzOR unless specified. The current-scan rate response plots from 5 to 100 mV s−1 (Figure S14, Supporting Information) exhibits negligible fluctuation, indicating the efficient charge and mass transport during the catalytic process.[30,31] Further, the sensitivity test was carried out in 1.0 M KOH containing infinitesimal hydrazine. The current–concentration response curves (Figure S15, Supporting Information) show that the oxidation current increases regularly with the increasing hydrazine concentrations from 0 to 10 mM, implying the high sensitivity and the promising application of Ni NCNA as the sensor platform www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

Figure 4. The electrocatalytic evaluation towards HzOR for Ni NCNA. a) LSV curves in 1.0 M KOH containing variable concentrations of hydrazine. b) The polarization curves and c) compared working potential as well as d) the corresponding Tafel plots of Ni NCNA, Ni/NiMoO<sub>4</sub> NA, NiCoMoO<sub>4</sub> HA, NiMoO<sub>4</sub> NA, and Ni foam. e) The ADT via successive CV test. f) The chronoamperometric (l-t) test recorded at the working potential of -0.002 V. The electrolyte is 1.0 M KOH containing 0.3 M N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> and the scan rate is 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup>, if not specified.

for electrochemical detection of N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub>. In order to evaluate the superiority of Ni NCNA towards HzOR, the comparing experiment was implemented, as shown in Figure 4b. Clearly, the Ni NCNA displays the best HzOR catalytic activity with the record-high current density of 827 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at an ultralow working potential of 0.1 V, outperforming that of bare Ni foam, NiMoO<sub>4</sub> NA, NiCoMoO<sub>4</sub> HA, and Ni/NiMoO<sub>4</sub> NA, exhibiting the great potential for industry-level applications. For a detailed comparison, the required working potentials of Ni NCNA, Ni/NiMoO<sub>4</sub> NA, NiCoMoO<sub>4</sub> HA, NiMoO<sub>4</sub> NA, and Ni foam to achieve 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> are -26, -18, 27, 48, and 66 mV, respectively, as shown in Figure 4c. This attractive value is also superior compared to the recently reported materials, such as CoSe<sub>2</sub><sup>[32]</sup> and Cu-Ni<sub>3</sub>N.<sup>[33]</sup> At higher working potential of 0.05 V, the Ni NCNA can achieve the 340 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is slightly superior to that of Ni<sub>2</sub>P (≈305 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> @ 0.05 V).<sup>[5]</sup> The corresponding Tafel slopes (Figure 4d) are 32.6, 39.5, 49.5, 50.1, and 51.4 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, respectively, and the smallest value of 32.6 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> suggests the facile kinetics of Ni NCNA for HzOR. Besides, the smallest semi-circle of Ni NCNA in the Nyquist plots among these samples (Figure S16, Supporting Information) indicates the favorable charge transfer at the electrode/ electrolyte interface. In order to investigate the specific activity of these Ni-based materials, the electrochemical specific area (ECSA) was obtained based on the redox peak method.[34] As portrayed in Figure S17 (Supporting Information), Ni NCNA has the biggest ECSA of 154.31 cm<sup>-2</sup>, mainly benefitting from the unique nanorod-confined-nanoflake structure. Further normalizing the LSV curves with ECSA (Figure S18a, Supporting Information), Ni NCNA still displays the best activity, Ni/NiMoO<sub>4</sub> has the better performance than the remaining samples, and Ni foam manifests the superior capacity compared to the two kinds of precursors. The mass activity is significant to reduce the dimensions, expenses, and weight of the practical apparatus, which is largely determined by the intrinsic activity and additionally the surface area of catalyst. The loading of the precursors of NiMoO<sub>4</sub> NA and NiCoMoO<sub>4</sub> HA is 6.3 and 10.2 mg cm<sup>-2</sup>, respectively. And the corresponding samples of Ni/NiMoO4 NA and Ni NCNA have the loading of 2.4 and 2.8 mg cm<sup>-2</sup>. The mass-normalized polarization curves suggest that Ni NCNA is still located at the top-notch position, Ni/NiMoO<sub>4</sub> has the second-best performance, while NiCoMoO<sub>4</sub> HA and NiMoO4 NA are almost insensitive for hydrazine oxidation. Noticeably, the geometric activity, specific activity, and mass activity of Ni NCNA are the most advanced, implying the integration of different Ni-based components with the unique

www.small-journal.com

conrod-confined-nanoflake units can not only enhance the intrinsic activity but also increase the accessible ECSA.

In order to decipher the possible structure-performance relationship and dig out the key ingredients, a series of comparing samples with the relatively simple constitute have been prepared, such as MoO<sub>3-x</sub> (Figure S19, Supporting Information), Ni<sub>0.5</sub>Co<sub>0.5</sub>(OH)<sub>2</sub> (Figure S20, Supporting Information), and NiCo alloy (Figure S21, Supporting Information). The comparing polarization curves presented in Figure S22, Supporting Information, provide the intuitive evidence that NiCo alloy has better performance than others except Ni NCNA, coinciding with the previous results about NiCo alloy.[35-38] Besides, the Ni foam also exhibits the intrinsic HzOR performance, thus suggesting that Ni and NiCo are the active sites for the HzOR process. However, both of the activity is still inferior to that of Ni NCNA, suggesting the cooperation of Ni, NiCo and Mo oxide for largely improving the oxidation ability, matched well with the comparing performance of Ni NCNA and Ni/NiMoO<sub>4</sub>. The nearly invisible rise of LSV curve of Ni<sub>0.5</sub>Co<sub>0.5</sub>(OH)<sub>2</sub> suggests the single Ni2+ and Co2+ cannot drive the electrochemical splitting of hydrazine effectively. While NiCoMoO4 HA Ar exhibits superior activity than MoO<sub>3-x</sub>, indicating high-valent Mo may be more important than Mo<sup>4+/5+</sup> for the oxidation process. The synergism of Ni-based multicomponent is inevitable for HzOR process, besides the key active species of Ni, NiCo as well as Mo<sup>6+</sup>, the Ni/Co oxide may have the associated function, which will be discussed later.

On the other hand, durability is another important criterion for practical applications. First, the accelerated decay test (ADT) was utilized to investigate the cyclic voltammetry (CV) stability (Figure 4e and Figure S23, Supporting Information), where both the polarization curves and Nyquist plots exhibit outstanding stability after 5000 cycles. Moreover, the I-t plot (Figure 4f) displays that 86.9% of current retention can be observed after continuous 20 h electrolysis at the current density of 50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, demonstrating excellent long-term stability.

The noteworthy electrochemical stability encourages us to further investigate the possible structural evolution of the postcatalytic sample. The FE-SEM and TEM images (Figure S24a,b, Supporting Information) display the well-preserved dense distribution of nanorod-confined-nanoflake morphology, suggesting the robust connection of hierarchical architecture with the Ni substrate. The XRD pattern exhibits no new phases besides the remaining Ni/NiCo and NiMoO<sub>4</sub>, which further supports the structural stability. Unexpectedly, the surface-sensitive Raman spectrum detects the emerging broad peaks at 450-600 cm<sup>-1</sup>, which may be ascribed to the Ni/Co oxides, besides the original NiMoO<sub>4</sub> and MoO<sub>3-x</sub>. To obtain the detailed chemical identities of the active surface layer, in situ Raman spectroscopy was performed to decipher the evolution of the active intermediate. As shown in Figure S25 (Supporting Information), the Raman spectrum at open circuit potential only presents one vibrational peak at circa 895 cm<sup>-1</sup> belonging to the Mo-O vibration of the tetrahedral co-ordination, which is different from the fresh sample exposed in the air.[39] At -0.1 V, besides the unchanged Mo-O vibrational peak, a couple of broad peaks centered at 458 and 525 cm<sup>-1</sup> arise, attributable to the Ni-O stretching in  $\alpha/\beta$ -Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> and the defective or disordered Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> caused by the doping of Co,[40] suggesting the possible formation of amorphous Co<sub>x</sub>Ni<sub>1-x</sub>(OH)<sub>2</sub>. [41] There were no obviously shifted yet increased peaks on the two vibrations at 0.1-0.5 V, besides the appearance of a tiny signal at around 1067 cm<sup>-1</sup> ascribed to the intercalated carbonate ions in the Co<sub>x</sub>Ni<sub>1-x</sub>(OH)<sub>2</sub> structure. Notably, the stable vibrational peak at about 895 cm<sup>-1</sup> suggests the robust rigidity of NiMoO4. The in situ electrochemical Raman spectrum results could indicate the synchronal generation of amorphous or defective Co<sub>x</sub>Ni<sub>1-x</sub>(OH)<sub>2</sub> during the HzOR process, which creates the effective adsorption sites of reactive OH<sub>ad</sub>. [19] Then, the available Ni/NiCo may facilitate the adsorption of hydrazine molecule and the dissociation of H<sub>ad</sub> from N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub>, which further combines with the reactive OH<sub>ad</sub> to form H<sub>2</sub>O, thus could be of prime importance to improve the electrocatalytic HzOR performance.[42] The above evidence piece an outline that the several constituents in Ni NCNA are an organic entity to boosting the HzOR activity.

#### 2.3. Investigation of Electrocatalytic HER Activities

The electrochemical performance for hydrogen evolution was then investigated in 1.0 M KOH. From the comparing LSV curves shown in Figure 5a, it is notable that Ni NCNA presents the best catalytic activity with a small overpotential (47 mV) to achieve 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is smaller than that of Ni/NiMoO<sub>4</sub> NA (70 mV), NiCoMoO<sub>4</sub> HA (224 mV), NiMoO<sub>4</sub> NA (203 mV), and Ni foam (270 mV), also comparable with the best-reported values for non-noble catalyst. [43-45] Furthermore, the kinetics behavior was analyzed according to the corresponding Tafel plots (Figure 5b). As indicated, the much smaller Tafel slope of Ni NCNA (41.0 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) than that of Ni/NiMoO<sub>4</sub> NA (46.6 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ), NiCoMoO<sub>4</sub> HA (93.4 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ), NiMoO<sub>4</sub> NA  $(108.7 \text{ mV dec}^{-1})$ , and Ni foam  $(89.7 \text{ mV dec}^{-1})$  means the profitable kinetics for hydrogen evolution. The electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) measurement indicates the smallest semi-circle belonging to Ni NCNA in the Nyquist plots (Figure 5c), revealing the superior interfacial transfer kinetics during HER process.[46] The ECSA-corrected LSV curves (Figure S26a, Supporting Information) give the changed trend of specific activity compared to the geometrical activity, where Ni NCNA has the optimal intrinsic activity, then is Ni/ NiMoO<sub>4</sub>, and next is Ni foam. The mass activity of Ni NCNA is also top-notch in the four controlled samples, implying the synergistic optimization of the intrinsic activity and exposed active sites (Figure S26b, Supporting Information). Besides, the comparing activity of several samples with simple component give the different result (Figure S27, Supporting Information) with the above HzOR process. And the NiCoMoO<sub>4</sub> HA Ar display much inferior activity than that of Ni NCNA, alluding to the necessity of reduced metal of Ni and Co as well as low-valent Mo species.  $MoO_{3-x}$  has better performance than those of NiCo alloy and Ni<sub>0.5</sub>Co<sub>0.5</sub>(OH)<sub>2</sub>, implying the low-valent Mo species is active for HER process.<sup>[47]</sup> Besides, the single Ni foam also possesses the HER activity, proving Ni is also active. Hence, the activity for HER is slightly different and Mo<sup>4+/5+</sup> and plays a more important role than Mo<sup>6+</sup> during the reduction process, besides the contribution of other components, as every single material has much poor activity than Ni NCNA.

SCIENCE NEWS \_\_\_\_\_\_\_ \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Figure 5. The electrocatalytic evaluation towards HER in 1.0 M KOH. a–c) The polarization curves, corresponding Tafel plots as well as the Nyquist plots at the overpotential of 50 mV of Ni NCNA, Ni/NiMoO<sub>4</sub> NA, NiCoMoO<sub>4</sub> HA, NiMoO<sub>4</sub> NA, and Ni foam. d) The chronoamperometric test at the overpotential of 87 mV.

Further, the durability of catalyst was investigated by the chronoamperometric test at the overpotential of 87 mV for uninterrupted 30 h, where almost 100% current retention can be observed (Figure 5d), implying the dominant endurance for HER process. The FE-SEM and TEM characterization on this Ni NCNA electrode after 30-h electrolysis displays a similar morphology to the freshly prepared samples (Figure S28a,b, Supporting Information), suggesting remarkable mechanical stability. While the XRD pattern of the post-HER sample (Figure S28c, Supporting Information) only displays the well-observed peaks belonging to Ni/NiCo without the characteristic diffractions assigned to NiMoO<sub>4</sub>, inferring the possible amorphization during the cathodic polarization process. The Raman spectrum (Figure S28d, Supporting Information) well picks up the abnormal structural distortion, as the peaks at 933 and 881 cm<sup>-1</sup> (typical Mo-O vibration of MoO<sub>4</sub><sup>2-</sup>) attenuate, along with the enhanced peaks at 434 and 725 cm<sup>-1</sup>, as well as the emerging broad peaks located at about 858 cm<sup>-1</sup>, which may be divided into the increased constituent of MoO<sub>3-x</sub>. [26] Also, a similar broad peak situated at 450-600 cm<sup>-1</sup> means the possible generation of amorphous Ni/ Co (hydr)oxides during the HER process in the alkaline solution. [48,49] The above post-catalytic analysis combined with the activity investigation of single constitute suggests that the lowvalent Mo oxides and the Ni/Co<sup>2+</sup> may be active and helpful for accelerating the HER process, in which the Ni/Co oxides can modulate the dissociation of  $H_2O$  and the  $Mo^{4/5+}$  in the  $MoO_{3-x}$ may facilitate the desorption of generated H<sub>2</sub>, combing with the favorable adsorption of H on Ni/Co sites, thus cooperatively boosting the HER performance. [6] On the other hand, the hierarchical nanorod-confined-nanoflake structure, as well as the 3D macro-porous skeletons, could maximally expose the active sites, thus is count much for the overwhelming activity.

#### 2.4. Evaluation of OHzS Performance

Encouraged by the splendid HzOR and HER catalytic activity, the electrocatalytic H2 production efficiency based on OHzS in a two-electrode cell using 1.0 M KOH with 0.3 M hydrazine as the electrolyte was further explored. In order to compare the kinetic and thermodynamic advantages of hydrazine electrolysis, the OWS system with the same electrode configuration was also constructed. Figure 6a depicts that the polarization curve of OHzS not only shifts to the negative direction obviously compared with that of OWS, but also achieves the recordhigh industrial current density of 892 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at an ultrasmall cell voltage of 0.485 V, suggesting the huge thermodynamic advantage via OHzS. Specifically, it only needs 0.079, 0.124, and 0.189 V of cell voltage to reach the current density of 50, 100, and 200 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> (Figure S29a, Supporting Information), respectively, while the large voltages of 1.642, 1.707, and 1.783 V are required for the OWS system. Apart from the thermodynamic benefit, the smaller overpotentials (Figure S29b, Supporting Information) of OHzS than that of OWS further establish the kinetics superiority. In order to ascertain the dominant position of bifunctional Ni NCNA for violent hydrogen evolution, the recently reported top-notch electrocatalysts for OHzS and OWS have been investigated as a comparison, as shown in Figure 6b, where it can be seen that the required voltage using our Ni NCNA electrode at the large current density of 500 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> is far smaller than those of the most advanced OWS materials (NiFe-LDH/MXene/NF, [50] Fe<sub>0.25</sub>C<sub>1</sub>CH/NF, [51] Co<sub>4</sub>N-CeO<sub>2</sub>, [52] FeP/Ni<sub>2</sub>P,<sup>[53]</sup> FeIr/NF<sup>[54]</sup>), also among the best when compared to the prestigious catalysts (Ni<sub>2</sub>P/NF, [5] Ni(Cu)/NF, [55] Ni(Cu)@ NiFeP/NM, [19] PW-Co<sub>3</sub>N NWA/NF, [56] Ni<sub>3</sub>N-Co<sub>3</sub>N PNAs/NF [57]) for OHzS at different current densities (200 and 500 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), plus the biggest sphere (the diameter of sphere positively

SCIENCE NEWS \_\_\_\_\_\_\_ JIIIUII
www.advancedsciencenews.com www.small-journal.com

Figure 6. Electrochemical performance of OHzS using Ni NCNA as bifunctional electrocatalysts. a) The LSV curves toward OWS and OHzS. b) Comparing activity of Ni NCNA with the recently reported bifunctional electrocatalysts for OHzS ( $Ni_2P/NF_i^{[5]}$  Ni(Cu)/ $NF_i^{[55]}$  Ni(Cu)@NiFeP/NM, $I^{[9]}$  PW-Co<sub>3</sub>N NWA/NF, $I^{[56]}$  Ni<sub>3</sub>N-Co<sub>3</sub>N PNAs/NF $I^{[57]}$ ) or OWS (NiFe-LDH/MXene/NF, $I^{[50]}$  Fe<sub>0.25</sub>C<sub>1</sub>CH/NF, $I^{[51]}$  Co<sub>4</sub>N-CeO<sub>2</sub>, $I^{[52]}$  FeP/Ni<sub>2</sub>P, $I^{[53]}$  Felr/NF $I^{[54]}$ ). c) The polarization curves after successive CV test, inset shows the I-t curve at the applied voltage of 0.08 V. d) The multi-current process from 50 to 400 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> with the increment of 50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> every 600 s. e) The water contact angle measurement of Ni NCNA. f) Optical image of OHzS powered by a waste battery and the generated hydrogen (g), inset shows the generated H<sub>2</sub> and N<sub>2</sub> gas bubbles.

correlated the ratio of current density and applied potential reflect the resultant performance) of Ni NCNA among all the compared samples means the most-efficient energy utilization.

More importantly, in order to meet the practical application, the stability is then evaluated, as shown in Figure 6c, where the LSV curve after 5000 cycles has little change compared

**www.small-journal.com**

with the initial one, as the current density at 0.485 V merely varies from 892 to 888 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, suggesting the outstanding persistence in the two-electrode system. The inset in Figure 6c portrays that the *I*–*t* curve has little fluctuation after 30 h at the voltage of 0.021 V, advising the comparative stability for practical hydrogen generation. Even exerting the high voltage of 0.2 V for violent H2 evolution, the bigger current density of about 200 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> can be well recovered and maintained when refreshing the electrolyte every 10 h for re-testing, as pointed in Figure S30, Supporting Information. The multicurrent step chrono-potentiometric curve shown in Figure 6d presents the immediate level off of voltage at the initial current density of 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> , and keeps stable during the persistent 600 s. The remaining steps for all current densities tested up to 400 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> show a similar trend, suggesting the good conductivity, mass transportation property, and mechanical robustness for this electrode.[58]

To seek the underlying relationships between the large current capacity and the interfacial property of Ni NCNA, the water contact angle measurement was further performed and the photos (Figure 6e) display that the water droplets can quickly spread on the electrode surface within only 0.2 s (the dropping time is 8.84″, contacting time is 8.84″, and disappearing time is 9.08″), demonstrating the excellent super hydrophilicity of Ni NCNA to facilitate the efficient electrolyte transfer, as well as the quick re-exposure of catalytic sites upon the fast release of gas bubbles.[21] The extraordinary performance inspired us to further explore its potential for practical application. As shown in the optical image (Figure 6f), the OHzS unit can be powered by a single waste AAA battery effortlessly (Figure S31, Supporting Information, the open-circuit voltage is 1.209 V) and the obvious H2 gas bubble in the cathode and N2 gas bubble in the anode can be observed (Movie S1, Supporting Information). Impressively, the OHzS unit can drive a visible H2 production with the rate of 1.074 mmol h<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> (Figure 6g). As 10 000 tons of waste battery is produced in China every year, and 60.8% of them are only put at home or thrown away as domestic waste,[59] the feasible utilization of waste battery to extract the poor-quality energy and upgrade them with the high-value hydrogen energy demonstrate the perspective of turn "waste" into wealth. In brief, the OHzS is more energysaving and efficient for producing H2 than the traditional OWS, and the marvelous performance of Ni NCNA further proves its possibility for practical H2 generation.

## **3. Conclusion**

In summary, we reported a practicable integrated electrode composed of superhydrophilic Ni-based multicomponent nanorod-confined-nanoflake arrays containing plentiful heterointerfaces of Ni/NiMoO4 and the atomically matched Ni/ NiCo at the combined region. Benefitting from the cooperative structure of Ni-based constituents as well as the 3D superhydrophilic hierarchical architecture, this Ni NCNA exhibits the exceptional electrocatalytic performance for HzOR and HER, which only needs the potential of −26 mV and the overpotential of 47 mV to reach the current density of 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> , respectively. The most striking point is that our Ni NCNA electrode can reach the record-high current density of 892 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2 at an ultrasmall input voltage of 0.495 V when used as the bifunctional catalysts for the hydrazine oxidation at the anode and hydrogen evolution at the cathode, also achieves the high H2 generation rate of 1.074 mmol h<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> powered by the waste AAA battery, advocating its feasibility for large-scale and economical hydrogen evolution under the industrial current. Our results highlight the potentiality of noble-metal free hierarchical architectures with superhydrophilic interfaces as the advanced bifunctional catalysts for energy-efficient hydrogen generation, broadening the avenue for designing multicomponent heterojunction arrays for the industry-level hydrogen evolution.

## **4. Experimental Section**

*Synthesis of NiMoO4 NA*: A piece of commercial Ni foam (2.5 cm × 4 cm) was carefully pretreated with 3.0 M of HCl to remove the possible oxidation layer and impurity on the surface, and then washed with DI water and ethanol before using. To prepare NiMoO4 NA, the Ni foam was placed in a 50 mL Teflon-lined stainless-steel autoclave contained a solution of (NH4)6Mo7O24·4H2O (309 mg) and NH4F (10 mg) in a mixed solvent of 20 mL of DIW and 10 mL of ethanol. Afterward, the autoclave was sealed and maintained at 150 °C for 5 h. After cooling to room temperature, the substrate was taken out and cleaned by ultrasonication for several minutes to remove the residues on the surface before being fully dried at 60 °C for overnight.

*Synthesis of NiCoMoO4 HA*: In a typical synthesis, 0.5 mmol of Ni(NO3)2·6H2O (145.4 mg) and 0.5 mmol of Co(NO3)2·6H2O (145.5 mg) was dissolved into a mixed solution of 15 mL H2O and 15 mL ethanol at room temperature to form a clear solution, followed by the addition of 0.5 mmol of Na2MoO4·2H2O (121 mg) under magnetic stirring for 10 min. The obtained mixture was transferred into a 50 mL Teflon-lined autoclave. Then, the as-grown NiMoO4 NA on Ni foam was subsequently immersed into the autoclave and heated at 150 °C for 6 h. The resultant material was washed with DI water and ethanol three times and dried in vacuum at 60 °C.

*Synthesis of Ni NCNA*: Ni NCNA was obtained by annealing the above NiCoMoO4 HA in the tube furnace under H2/Ar (10%/90%) atmosphere at 550 °C for 2 h with a heating rate of 1 °C min−<sup>1</sup> .

*Synthesis of Ni/NiMoO*4 *NA*: Ni/NiMoO4 NA was obtained by directly annealing the initial NiMoO4 NA in the same condition as that of Ni NCNA.

*Synthesis of MoO3*-*x*: The sample was obtained by treating the Ni NCNA in 0.1 M HCl.[6]

*Synthesis of Ni0.5Co0.5(OH)2*: The sample was in situ grown on the Ni foam via a modified hydrothermal reaction based on the previous report.[60]

*Synthesis of NiCo alloy*: The sample was obtained by reducing the Ni0.5Co0.5(OH)2 under H2/Ar gas at 550 °C for 2 h.

*Material Characterizations*: The morphology was observed via the FE-SEM (SU-8200); the microstructure and elemental distribution were characterized by TEM (JEOL, JEM-2010) equipped with energy disperse spectroscopy (EDS); powder XRD (TTR-III,) and Raman spectrometer (Renishaw inVia; 532 nm excitation wavelength) were used to explore the phase; XPS (ESCALAB 250) was executed to analyze the elemental information; gas chromatographs (CG 7900) equipped with a thermal conductivity detector (TCD) and TDX-01 column was applied to quantify the generated gas.

*Electrochemical Measurements*: The HzOR and HER were measured in the three-electrode configuration with graphite rod (Φ = 6 mm) as the counter electrode, Hg/HgO (1.0 M KOH) as the reference electrode, and the synthesized samples as working electrode at room temperature (RT). The test techniques, including LSV, CV, amperometric *i*–*t* Curve (*I*–*t*), EIS, and multi-current step chrono-potentiometric curve were offered by the electrochemical workstation (CH Instruments 760E). During the HzOR

**www.small-journal.com**

process, the potential window for LSV and CV is −0.1–0.5 V (versus RHE), the scan rate of LSV and CV is 5 and 100 mV s−<sup>1</sup> , respectively. The working potential of *I*–*t* test is −0.002 V. The working potential for EIS is setting at 0 V versus RHE. During the HER process, the LSV parameter ranges from 0.05 to −0.375 V (versus RHE), the scan rate is 5 mV s−<sup>1</sup> . The working potential is executed at −0.05 V (versus RHE) for EIS measurement. The *I*–*t* curve is recorded at 0.087 V. As for the twoelectrode system measurement, the applied voltage for OHzS ranged from 0–1.2 V, while 1.0–2.0 V for OWS, and the scan rate is 5 mV s−<sup>1</sup> . The CV voltage range is the same as that for OHzS, the scan rate is 100 mV s−<sup>1</sup> . The bias voltage applied for *I*–*t* is 80 mV. As for the multicurrent step chrono-potentiometric curve, the current density ranges from 50 to 400 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2 with increment of 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2 every 600 s. For the investigation of redox peaks, the potential window is ranged from 1.024 to 1.624 V with scan rate of 5 mV s−<sup>1</sup> . All potentials in this study were calibrated versus RHE according to the following equations:

$$E(RHE) = E(Hg/HgO) + 0.059 \times pH + 0.098$$
 (1)

*In Situ Raman Spectroscopy*: In situ Raman spectroscopy was performed with the same confocal Raman microscope equipped with a 50× (0.5 N.A.) long working distance objective (Olympus) and a laser with the excitation wavelength of 532 nm and power of 2.5 mW. The self-supported Ni NCNA was used as the working electrode, Pt wire, and Hg/HgO (1.0 M KOH) were used as the counter electrode and reference electrode, respectively. In situ Raman spectra of the working electrode were recorded once the running times reach 10 min during a current-time (*I*–*t*) curve at selected potentials. Acquisition time for each spectrum was 20 sweeps from 200 to 1200 cm−<sup>1</sup> .

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

Y.L. and J.L. contributed equally to this work. G.Z. acknowledges the financial support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 52072359), the Recruitment Program of Global Experts and the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities (WK2060000016).

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

## **Keywords**

hydrazine oxidation, hydrogen evolution, nanorod-confined-nanoflake array, superhydrophilic, waste battery

> Received: December 28, 2020 Revised: February 22, 2021 Published online: March 26, 2021

- [1] D. Larcher, J. M. Tarascon, *Nat. Chem.* **2015**, *7*, 19.
- [2] X. Xu, Y. Zhong, Z. Shao, *Trends Chem.* **2019**, *1*, 410.
- [3] Y. Xu, M. Kraft, R. Xu, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2016**, *45*, 3039.
- [4] M. Wang, Z. Wang, X. Gong, Z. Guo, *Renewable Sustainable Energy Rev.* **2014**, *29*, 573.
- [5] C. Tang, R. Zhang, W. Lu, Z. Wang, D. Liu, S. Hao, G. Du, A. M. Asiri, X. Sun, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, 842.
- [6] Z.-Y. Yu, C.-C. Lang, M.-R. Gao, Y. Chen, Q.-Q. Fu, Y. Duan, S.-H. Yu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2018**, *11*, 1890.
- [7] Q. Zhang, F. M. D. Kazim, S. Ma, K. Qu, M. Li, Y. Wang, H. Hu, W. Cai, Z. Yang, *Appl. Catal., B* **2021**, *280*, 119436.
- [8] W. J. Liu, Z. Xu, D. Zhao, X. Q. Pan, H. C. Li, X. Hu, Z. Y. Fan, W. K. Wang, G. H. Zhao, S. Jin, G. W. Huber, H. Q. Yu, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 265.
- [9] X. Zhao, L. Dai, Q. Qin, F. Pei, C. Hu, N. Zheng, *Small* **2017**, *13*, 1602970.
- [10] J. Hao, J. Liu, D. Wu, M. Chen, Y. Liang, Q. Wang, L. Wang, X.-Z. Fu, J.-L. Luo, *Appl. Catal., B* **2021**, *281*, 119510.
- [11] B. Zhao, J. Liu, C. Xu, R. Feng, P. Sui, J.-X. Luo, L. Wang, J. Zhang, J.-L. Luo, X.-Z. Fu, *Appl. Catal., B* **2021**, *285*, 119800.
- [12] Y. Li, X. Wei, L. Chen, J. Shi, M. He, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 5335.
- [13] Y. Huang, X. Chong, C. Liu, Y. Liang, B. Zhang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 13163.
- [14] B. You, X. Liu, X. Liu, Y. Sun, *ACS Catal.* **2017**, *7*, 4564.
- [15] B. You, N. Jiang, X. Liu, Y. Sun, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 9913.
- [16] C. Huang, Y. Huang, C. Liu, Y. Yu, B. Zhang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 12014.
- [17] L.-S. Wu, H.-B. Dai, X.-P. Wen, P. Wang, *ChemElectroChem* **2017**, *4*, 1944.
- [18] N. V. Rees, R. G. Compton, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2011**, *4*, 403.
- [19] Q. Sun, M. Zhou, Y. Shen, L. Wang, Y. Ma, Y. Li, X. Bo, Z. Wang, C. Zhao, *J. Catal.* **2019**, *373*, 180.
- [20] X. Liu, J. He, S. Zhao, Y. Liu, Z. Zhao, J. Luo, G. Hu, X. Sun, Y. Ding, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9*, 4365.
- [21] Y. Luo, L. Tang, U. Khan, Q. Yu, H.-M. Cheng, X. Zou, B. Liu, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 269.
- [22] W. Xu, Z. Lu, X. Sun, L. Jiang, X. Duan, *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2018**, *51*, 1590.
- [23] J. Zhang, T. Wang, P. Liu, Z. Liao, S. Liu, X. Zhuang, M. Chen, E. Zschech, X. Feng, *Nat. Commun.* **2017**, *8*, 15437.
- [24] L. Q. Mai, F. Yang, Y. L. Zhao, X. Xu, L. Xu, Y. Z. Luo, *Nat. Commun.* **2011**, *2*, 381.
- [25] Y. Y. Chen, Y. Zhang, X. Zhang, T. Tang, H. Luo, S. Niu, Z. H. Dai, L. J. Wan, J. S. Hu, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1703311.
- [26] J. Z. Ou, J. L. Campbell, D. Yao, W. Wlodarski, K. Kalantar-zadeh, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2011**, *115*, 10757.
- [27] D. Guo, P. Zhang, H. Zhang, X. Yu, J. Zhu, Q. Li, T. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2013**, *1*, 9024.
- [28] M. Zhang, Q. Dai, H. Zheng, M. Chen, L. Dai, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1705431.
- [29] X. Wang, R. Su, H. Aslan, J. Kibsgaard, S. Wendt, L. Meng, M. Dong, Y. Huang, F. Besenbacher, *Nano Energy* **2015**, *12*, 9.
- [30] S. Chen, J. Duan, A. Vasileff, S. Z. Qiao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2016**, *55*, 3804.
- [31] S. Chen, J. Duan, M. Jaroniec, S. Z. Qiao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2013**, *52*, 13567.
- [32] J.-Y. Zhang, H. Wang, Y. Tian, Y. Yan, Q. Xue, T. He, H. Liu, C. Wang, Y. Chen, B. Y. Xia, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 7649.
- [33] Z. Wang, L. Xu, F. Huang, L. Qu, J. Li, K. A. Owusu, Z. Liu, Z. Lin, B. Xiang, X. Liu, K. Zhao, X. Liao, W. Yang, Y.-B. Cheng, L. Mai, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2019**, *9*, 1900390.
- [34] S. Anantharaj, S. Kundu, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2019**, *4*, 1260.

**www.small-journal.com**

- [35] M. B. Stevens, L. J. Enman, A. S. Batchellor, M. R. Cosby, A. E. Vise, C. D. M. Trang, S. W. Boettcher, *Chem. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 120.
- [36] M. Grdeń, M. Alsabet, G. Jerkiewicz, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2012**, *4*, 3012.
- [37] G. Feng, Y. Kuang, P. Li, N. Han, M. Sun, G. Zhang, X. Sun, *Adv. Sci.* **2017**, *4*, 1600179.
- [38] P.-P. Tang, X. Lin, H. Yin, D.-X. Zhang, H. Wen, J.-J. Wang, P. Wang, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2020**, *8*, 16583.
- [39] F. Dury, E. M. Gaigneaux, P. Ruiz, *Appl. Catal., A* **2003**, *242*, 187.
- [40] M. Vidotti, R. P. Salvador, S. I. Córdoba de Torresi, *Ultrason. Sonochem.* **2009**, *16*, 35.
- [41] K. S. Joya, X. Sala, *Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.* **2015**, *17*, 21094.
- [42] M. Li, Z. Zhang, H. Xiong, L. Wang, S. Zhuang, M. D. Argyle, Y. Tang, X. Yang, Y. Chen, P. Wan, M. Fan, *ChemElectroChem* **2020**, *7*, 3089.
- [43] L. Yu, Q. Zhu, S. Song, B. McElhenny, D. Wang, C. Wu, Z. Qin, J. Bao, Y. Yu, S. Chen, Z. Ren, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 5106.
- [44] Z. Chen, Y. Song, J. Cai, X. Zheng, D. Han, Y. Wu, Y. Zang, S. Niu, Y. Liu, J. Zhu, X. Liu, G. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 5076.
- [45] H. Yan, Y. Xie, A. Wu, Z. Cai, L. Wang, C. Tian, X. Zhang, H. Fu, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1901174.
- [46] X. Xu, Y. Chen, W. Zhou, Z. Zhu, C. Su, M. Liu, Z. Shao, *Adv. Mater.* **2016**, *28*, 6442.
- [47] Z. Luo, R. Miao, T. D. Huan, I. M. Mosa, A. S. Poyraz, W. Zhong, J. E. Cloud, D. A. Kriz, S. Thanneeru, J. He, Y. Zhang, R. Ramprasad, S. L. Suib, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2016**, *6*, 1600528.

- [48] L. Yang, R. Liu, L. Jiao, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*, 1909618.
- [49] Y. Zhang, L. Gao, E. J. M. Hensen, J. P. Hofmann, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2018**, *3*, 1360.
- [50] M. Yu, Z. Wang, J. Liu, F. Sun, P. Yang, J. Qiu, *Nano Energy* **2019**, *63*, 103880.
- [51] L. Hui, Y. Xue, D. Jia, H. Yu, C. Zhang, Y. Li, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1800175.
- [52] H. Sun, C. Tian, G. Fan, J. Qi, Z. Liu, Z. Yan, F. Cheng, J. Chen, C.-P. Li, M. Du, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*, 1910596.
- [53] F. Yu, H. Zhou, Y. Huang, J. Sun, F. Qin, J. Bao, W. A. Goddard, S. Chen, Z. Ren, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9*, 2551.
- [54] F. Shen, Y. Wang, G. Qian, W. Chen, W. Jiang, L. Luo, S. Yin, *Appl. Catal. B* **2020**, *278*, 119327.
- [55] Q. Sun, L. Wang, Y. Shen, M. Zhou, Y. Ma, Z. Wang, C. Zhao, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2018**, *6*, 12746.
- [56] Y. Liu, J. Zhang, Y. Li, Q. Qian, Z. Li, Y. Zhu, G. Zhang, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 1853.
- [57] Q. Qian, J. Zhang, J. Li, Y. Li, X. Jin, Y. Zhu, Y. Liu, Z. Li, A. El-Harairy, C. Xiao, G. Zhang, Y. Xie, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 2.
- [58] C. Tang, N. Cheng, Z. Pu, W. Xing, X. Sun, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, 9351.
- [59] H. Li, J. Dai, A. Wang, S. Zhao, H. Ye, J. Zhang, *IOP Conf. Ser.: Mater. Sci. Eng.* **2019**, *612*, 052020.
- [60] G. Zhang, X. W. Lou, *Adv. Mater.* **2013**, *25*, 976.