---
source: Li 等 - 2023 - Phosphorus‐Modified Amorphous High‐Entropy CoFeNiCrMn Compound as High‐Performance Electrocatalyst f.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 22.778s
generated: 2026-01-10T07:32:37.659355Z
---

# **Phosphorus-Modified Amorphous High-Entropy CoFeNiCrMn Compound as High-Performance Electrocatalyst for Hydrazine-Assisted Water Electrolysis**

*Kaixun Li, JinFeng He, Xuze Guan, Yun Tong,\* Yutong Ye, Lu Chen,\* and Pengzuo Chen\**

**Exploiting highly active and bifunctional catalysts for both hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR) is a prerequisite for the hydrogen acquisition. High-entropy materials have received widespread attention in catalysis, but the high-performance bifunctional electrodes are still lacking. Herein, a novel P-modified amorphous high-entropy CoFeNiCrMn compound is developed on nickel foam (NF) by one-step electrodeposition strategy. The achieved CoFeNiCrMnP/NF delivers remarkable HER and HzOR performance, where the overpotentials as low as 51 and 268 mV are realized at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. The improved cell voltage of 91 mV is further demonstrated at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> by assessing CoFeNiCrMnP/NF in the constructed hydrazine-assisted water electrolyser, which is almost 1.54 V lower than the HER||OER system. Experimental results confirm the important role of each element in regulating the bifuncational performance of high-entropy catalysts. The main influencing elements seem to be Fe and Ni for HER, while the P-modification and Cr metal may contribute a lot for HzOR. These synergistic advantages help to lower the energy barriers and improve the reaction kinetics, resulting in the excellent bifunctional activity of the CoFeNiCrMnP/NF. The work offers a feasible strategy to develop self-supporting electrode with high-entropy materials for overall water splitting.**

**1. Introduction**

Electrocatalytic hydrogen production is one of the important ways to produce hydrogen from water molecule due to its green, high efficiency, and stability.[1–5] However, due to the high

K. Li, J. He, Y. Tong, Y. Ye, P. Chen School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Key Laboratory of Surface & Interface Science of Polymer Materials of Zhejiang Province Zhejiang Sci-Tech University Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310018, China E-mail: tongyun@mail.ustc.edu.cn; pzchen@zstu.edu.cn X. Guan, L. Chen Department of Chemical Engineering University College London Roberts Building, Torrington Place, London WC1E 7JE, UK E-mail: ucecheg@ucl.ac.uk

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202302130

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202302130**

thermodynamic potential and sluggish kinetics of the anodic oxygen evolution reaction (OER), the large-scale production of hydrogen fuel by electrocatalytic water splitting is still a serious obstacle.[6–10] In this context, replacing the OER halfreaction with other more efficient oxidation processes may be a promising approach to improving the overall energy efficiency of water splitting. The HzOR (hydrazine + 4OH<sup>−</sup>→N2 + 4H2O + 4e<sup>−</sup>) has attracted widely attentions because its low theoretical potential of −0.33 V compared to the OER (1.23 V).[11–13] A wide variety of electrocatalysts, including transition metal phosphides, sulfides, oxides, etc, have been developed and proven practical in HzOR.[14–18] For example, a MoO2/Co heterojunction is developed as highly active electrocatalyst for HzOR due to the optimized dehydrogenation process of N2H4 and Δ*G*H\*. [19] Although binary catalysts have received great attention. However, thermodynamic conditions limit their composition range and formation conditions, resulting in limited modulation range of electronic structures and catalytic activity.

Recently, significant efforts have been devoted to the development of multi-elemental or high-entropy materials with uniformly distribution of multiple elements in a solid solution.[20–23] As unique emerging materials, the high-entropy compounds such as alloy, oxides, carbides, phosphates, sulfides, and hydroxides, have been considered as ideal systems for designing advanced electrocatalysts due to their excellent stability, unique microstructure, and high catalytic activity.[21,24–28] Compared with electrocatalysts below ternary, high-entropy materials have rich component modulation range and complex surface interface structure, which provides the possibility to achieve a nearly continuous distribution of adsorption energy curves. Non-noble metal-based high-entropy compounds, such as CrMnFeCoNi consists of five elements with close radii or its derivatives, show promising application potentials in zinc–air battery, hydrogenation of p-nitrophenol, solid-state hydrogen storage, and water oxidation.[29–33] However, the potential applications in overall water splitting, especially energy-saving hydrazine hydrate-assisted hydrogen production, remain unexplored to date. The development of easy-to-develop self-supporting

| IVB            | VB | VIB  | VIIB                                         | VIIIB |    |        | IB    |
|----------------|----|------|----------------------------------------------|-------|----|--------|-------|
| Ti             | V  | Cr   | Mn                                           | Fe    | Со | Ni     | Cu    |
| Zr             | Nb | Мо   | Тс                                           | Ru    | Rh | Pd     | Ag    |
| Hf             | Та | w    | Re                                           | Os    | lr | Pt     | Au    |
| Co Fe Ni Cr Mn |    | elec | noamperor<br>trodeposit<br>400s<br>vs. Ag/Ag | ion   |    | CoFeNi | CrMnP |

**Figure 1.** The schematic representation for the synthesis of CoFeNiCrMnP/NF sample.

electrode preparation technology is expected to make new ideas.

The electrodeposition strategy has gradually become an effective technique for preparing self-supporting high-entropy electrodes, which have lots of advantages such as the excellent bonding energy, controllable loading mass, and convenient operation.[34,35] Many research interests have also been focused on regulating the procedure parameters to achieve superior electrodes with unique microstructure, different compositions, and special physicochemical properties for catalysis. For example, Ni–Fe–Cu–Co–W high entropy alloy (HEA) is electrodeposited on iron sheet substrate, which exhibits significantly improved OER catalytic performance.[36] High entropy FeCoNiMnW alloy is growing in situ on carbon papers via a pulse current electrodeposition, serving as an excellent bi-functional electrode for acidic water splitting.[37] Likewise, a Pt-optimized high entropy catalysts is electrosynthesized on carbon cloth substrate as an effective electrocatalyst for hydrogen evolution.[38] In addition, many results have shown that anion modifications such as Panion can help to further improve the catalytic performance of high-entropy materials, mainly because the anion sites have better adsorption properties than metal cations for specific reaction intermediates.[24,39,40] Therefore, combining the synergistic advantages of anion modification and electrodeposition method, it is of certain research value to develop more efficient and practical self-supporting electrodes for hydrogen production via electrocatalytic water splitting.

Herein, we have proposed a novel type of non-noble metalbased high-entropy electrocatalyst by in situ electrochemical deposition of P-modified CoFeNiCrMn compound on the NF substrate via a facile and general one-step strategy. The amorphous CoFeNiCrMnP/NF with nanosheet morphology endows its abundant catalytic active sites, while the synergistic incorporation of P-anion and five metal elements contribute to the promoted reaction kinetics for both HER/HzOR, thus realizing the excellent bifunctional catalytic performance. For HER and HzOR, the CoFeNiCrMnP/NF catalyst shows extremely low overpotentials of 51 and 268 mV at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, small Tafel slopes of 48 and 1.8 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1, as well as high stability in alkaline medium. Most importantly, a high performance is obtained by further assembling the CoFeNiCrMnP/NF||CoFeNiCrMnP/NF electrolyzer for HER||HzOR system. The device delivers a low cell voltage of 91 mV at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and excellent catalytic stability, which is almost 1.54 V lower than HER||OER, presenting high feasibility in hydrazine-assisted hydrogen production.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

In this study, the in situ growth of CoFeNiCrMnP compound on NF substrate is realized by a one-step electrodeposition process. The solution contains transition metal (Co, Fe, Ni, Cr, Mn)-based salts and Na2HPO2·H2O are used as initial electrolyte to conduct electroreduction reaction at −2 V. After the metal ions obtain electrons, they are in situ deposited onto the NF working electrode and the synergistic P-anions modification is realized (**Figure 1**). For comparison, a series of CoNiCrMnP, CoFeCrMnP, CoFeNiMnP, CoFeNiCrP, and FeNiCrMnP high-entropy electrocatalysts are similarly prepared by changing the usage of metal precursor. X-ray diffraction (XRD) is used to analyze the phases of these samples (**Figure 2**a). The CoNiCrMnP/NF product only shows the diffraction peaks of SiO2 glass and NF substrate, and there are no additional diffraction peaks of other metal materials, which proves that the prepared CoNiCrMnP compound has amorphous characteristics. This amorphous structure can also be observed in the XRD patterns of other obtained high-entropy compounds (Figure S1, Supporting Information). A single Co metal source is used for electrodeposition, and its XRD pattern confirms the structure of metal Co (JCPDS No. 05–0727, Figure S2, Supporting Information). Therefore, the primary reason of the amorphous property maybe the high entropy disordering brought on by the potent intermetallic effect.

The scanning electron microscopy (SEM) image of CoFeNi-CrMnP/NF provides the interconnected assembly structures of nanoparticles, which is consistent with the transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images (Figure 2b–d; Figure S3, Supporting Information). The nanoparticles are closely connected to

**Figure 2.** a) The XRD pattern and b) SEM image of CoFeNiCrMnP/NF, c,d) TEM images, e) HRTEM image, f) SAED pattern, and g) elemental mapping images of CoFeNiCrMnP. h) The EDS spectrum and atomic content of CoFeNiCrMnP.

form a unique nanosheet morphology. No apparent lattice fringes can be observed by the high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) image, further demonstrating the amorphous structure. This result can be further confirmed by selected area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern with no electron diffraction signal (Figure 2e,f). To investigate the spatial distribution of different elements, elemental mapping analysis in the TEM scanning mode was carried out on the CoFeNiCrMnP. In Figure 2g, the Co, Fe, Mn, Ni, Cr and P elements are uniformly distributed on CoFeNiCrMnP nanosheet, which proves the successful construction of P-modified high-entropy material. In addition, the energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) spectrum of CoFeNi-CrMnP further demonstrate the compositions of these six elements (Figure 2h). The atomic content of each element is calculated by inductively coupled plasma (ICP) analysis, where the Co, Fe, Mn, Ni, Cr, and P are ≈61.2%, 7.0%, 13.5%, 6.4%, 2.8%, and 9.1%, respectively. The detailed characterizations (XRD patterns, SEM and TEM images) of other four-element control samples (CoFeNiCrP/NF, CoNiCrMnP/NF, FeNiCrMnP/NF, CoFe-CrMnP/NF, and CoFeNiMnP/NF) are measured. First, the XRD patterns of all four-element control samples are shown in Figure S1 (Supporting Information), which only display the diffraction peaks of NF, suggesting the same amorphous structure as CoFeNiCrMnP/NF sample. In addition, the SEM and TEM images of those four-element control samples are shown in Figures S4–S8 (Supporting Information). These results demonstrate that the catalysts grow tightly on the NF, but present different microscopic morphology, size, geometries, and structure.

www.small-journal.com

16136289, 2023, 42, Downloaded from https://onlinelthray.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/sml1.20202130 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Figure 3. High-resolution XPS spectra of a) Co 2p, b) Fe 2p, c) Ni 2p, d) Cr 2p, e) Mn 2p, and f) P 2p for CoFeNiCrMnP/NF sample after Ar surface

The X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) in Figures S9 and S10 (Supporting Information) suggests that all five metal elements and P element are mainly present in the CoFeNi-CrMnP/NF sample. In addition, the XPS results confirm that all metals charged positively in the prepared CoFeNiCrMnP/NF catalyst. The oxidation states of each element should be derived from possible surface oxidation when the catalyst is exposed in air. To confirm the surface oxidation of CoFeNiCrMnP/NF, the XPS tests are conducted by surface argon ion etching. As shown in Figure 3a, the Co 2p spectrum show two peaks located at 778.1 and 793.1 eV, which are ascribed to the Co<sup>0</sup>, while the peaks of 797.4 eV (Co  $2p_{1/2}$ ) and 781.4 eV (Co  $2p_{3/2}$ ) belong to the Co<sup>2+</sup>.[41] In addition, the Fe 2p spectrum is shown in Figure 3b. Three peaks with the binding energies of 704.9, 711.7, and 715.6 eV are originating from Fe<sup>0</sup>, Fe<sup>3+</sup> and satellite peak, respectively.<sup>[42]</sup> Figure 3c provides the information of Ni 2p spectrum, which can be split into three pairs of peaks. The peaks observed at 852.4 and 869.7 eV are ascribed to No species, while the peaks at 854.4 and 872.6 eV and their accompanied peaks with higher binding energies are Ni oxides and their satellites, respectively.<sup>[43]</sup>

With regard to Cr 2p regions, the peak at 587 and 577 eV corresponds to  $Cr^{3+}$   $2p_{1/2}$  and  $Cr^{3+}$   $2p_{3/2}$  (Figure 3d). [44] The high-resolution spectrum of Mn 2p exhibits two main peaks at 640.8 and 653.8 eV, which are assigned to Mn<sup>2+</sup> 2p<sub>3/2</sub> and  $Mn^{2+}$   $2p_{1/2}$ , whereas the peaks at 644 eV corresponds to satellite peaks (Figure 3e). [45] In Figure 3f, the two peaks at 130.2 and 129.2 eV can be attributed to P  $2p_{1/2}$  and P  $2p_{3/2}$ , and the peak at 133.4 eV originates from P-O bonds in the oxidized metal phosphate species on the surface. [46] Compared to the sample that is exposed in air (Figure S10, Supporting Information), there are some typical peaks of Co<sup>0</sup>, Fe<sup>0</sup>, Ni<sup>0</sup>, and metal-P bonds in the XPS spectra of CoFeNiCrMnP/NF after etching the surface oxides. Those results confirm that the existence of surface oxidation in the CoFeNiCrMnP/NF, leading to the phenomenon of all metals charged positively. However, the distribution of various elements in the final CoFeNiCrMnP material may be uneven. Therefore, the prepared high entropy material is still named as P-modified high entropy CoFeNiCrMn compound. Moreover, the XPS spectra of the other four-element control samples are shown in Figures S11-S15 (Supporting Information). All the XPS surveys suggest the different compositions of four metals and P element in CoFeNiCrP/NF, CoNiCrMnP/NF, FeNiCrMnP/NF, CoFeCrMnP/NF, and CoFeNiMnP/NF samples. Meanwhile, the valence states of each element are fitted and show the similar results as CoFeNiCrMnP/NF sample.

The HER performance of CoFeNiCrMnP/NF and other high entropy electrocatalysts is studied in a 1 м KOH with iRcorrection. Figure 4a shows the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves of these samples, which is recorded at a scanning rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. Among all high-entropy electrocatalysts, the FeNiCrMnP/NF sample shows worst performance  $(\eta_{100} = 278 \text{ mV})$ , while the HER activity is significantly improved when using the CoNiCrMnP/NF ( $\eta_{100} = 177$  mV), CoFe-CrMnP/NF ( $\eta_{100} = 175 \text{ mV}$ ), and CoFeNiCrP/NF ( $\eta_{100} = 170 \text{ mV}$ ) high entropy samples as electrocatalysts. This result shows the importance of Co element in maintaining high HER activity of these high entropy electrocatalysts. In addition, the CoFeNiMnP/NF sample delivers the further improved catalytic activity

**Figure 4.** a) LSV curves of high entropy electrocatalysts and commercial Pt/C. b) Comparison diagram of overpotential at 100 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> and loading mass, c) Tafel plots and d) Nyquist plots and equivalent circuit of prepared high entropy samples. e) The LSV curves before and after cyclic voltammetry (CV) cycles' ADT for CoFeNiCrMnP/NF sample. Insert graph is the electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) values and the specific activity (SA) before and after ADT. f) Comparison diagram of performance with other reported catalysts.

(<sup>100</sup> = 82 mV) compared to above four sample. After the introduction of Cr element into CoFeNiMnP/NF sample, the HER performance reaches the best. The CoFeNiCrMnP/NF can achieve a low overpotential of 51 mV at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (<sup>100</sup> = 51 mV), indicating all five metals may have positive promotion roles in enhancing the HER performance of CoFeNiMnP/NF (Figure 4b). The catalytic activity of CoFeNiCrMnP/NF is even better than that of commercial Pt/C catalyst, suggesting its promising potential application. In addition, the loading mass of CoFeNi-CrMnP/NF, CoNiCrMnP/NF, CoFeCrMnP/NF, CoFeNiCrP/NF, FeNiCrMnP/NF, and CoFeNiMn/NF are calculated to ≈2.2, 2.1, 2.0, 2.1, 2.0, and 2.0 mg cm<sup>−</sup>2, which are achieved by comparing the weight of electrode before and after electrodeposition (Figure 4b). Despite the loading mass of CoFeNiCrMnP/NF is slightly higher than that of other five samples, the catalytic performance of CoFeNiCrMnP/NF is even better. This phenomenon suggests that increased loading mass may not be the only factor for better catalytic performance of CoFeNiCrMnP/NF.

The reaction kinetics of high entropy electrocatalysts can also be evaluated by Tafel slope and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) tests. In Figure 4c, the CoFeNiCrMnP/NF has a lower Tafel slope of 48 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> than other samples, where the tafel slopes of CoNiCrMnP/NF, CoFeCrMnP/NF, CoFeNi-CrP/NF, FeNiCrMnP/NF, and CoFeNiMn/NF are 65, 59, 79, 81, and 57 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1, respectively. Besides, the minimum interface charge transfer resistance is demonstrated from EIS spectra, indicating the better catalytic reaction kinetics of CoFeNi-CrMnP/NF for HER (Figure 4d). The equivalent circuit and detailed fitted parameters can be found in Figure 4d and Table S1 (Supporting Information). Moreover, the superior HER stability of CoFeNiCrMnP/NF can be verified by the chronoamperometric tests. The current density does not deteriorate significantly during 20 h of continuous electrolysis, which proves that the CoFeNi-CrMnP/NF has excellent catalytic stability for HER in alkaline medium (Figure S16, Supporting Information). To further confirm the high stability of CoFeNiCrMnP/NF, the long-term accelerated degradation tests (ADT) are carried out for both HER and HzOR. The ADT tests are performed over 30 000 CV cycles in a 1 m KOH solution with a scan rate of 100 mV s<sup>−</sup>1. The ECSA values and specific activity (SA) of CoFeNiCrMnP/NF are also calculated before and after 10 000, 20 000, and 30 000 CV cycles. The ADT tests of HER is shown in Figure 4e. The CoFeNi-CrMnP/NF sample exhibits the excellent stability with almost no shift of LSV curves even after 30 000 CV cycles. A convincing stability can be observed for CoFeNiCrMnP/NF with only 5.3% decline in SA. In addition, compared with most catalysts reported in the advanced report, our developed self-supporting high entropy electrode shows promising advantage in catalytic performance (Figure 4f; Table S3, Supporting Information).

In addition, the HER performance of all prepared catalysts has also been conducted in 1 m KOH with 0.4 m N2H4. As shown in Figure S17a (Supporting Information), the prepared high entropy electrocatalysts still show good catalytic performance. The CoFeNiCrMnP/NF also delivers better activity than the other five control samples. After the detailed comparison, the CoFeNi-CrMnP/NF exhibits similar performance in 1 m KOH and 1 m KOH with 0.4 m N2H4 electrolytes (Figure S17b, Supporting Information), except for the different onset potential, which is

**Figure 5.** a) LSV curves in different concentrations of N2H4. b) LSV curves of CoFeNiCrMnP/NF in 1 m KOH electrolyte with and without 0.4 m N2H4. c) LSV curves of high entropy electrocatalysts and commercial RuO2. d) Comparison diagram, e) Tafel plots, and f) Nyquist plots and equivalent circuit of obtained high entropy samples. g) Comparison diagram of overpotential between CoFeNiCrMnP/NF and newly developed HzOR catalysts under 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. h) Chronoamperometric response of CoFeNiCrMnP/NF for HzOR.

mainly influenced by the catalytic potentials of HzOR when using electrolytes in the presence of N2H4. In addition, both the catalytic performance obtained from different electrolytes is further compared at the current density of 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. In Figure S17c (Supporting Information), the overpotentials of those high entropy electrocatalysts maintain similar when using the electrolyte with and without 0.4 m N2H4, suggesting the insignificant influence of N2H4 in the HER catalytic performance. Finally, the stability test of CoFeNiCrMnP/NF is conducted at a potential of −0.04 V versus RHE for HER (Figure S17d, Supporting Information). When using the 1 m KOH with 0.4 m N2H4 as electrolyte, the current density of CoFeNiCrMnP/NF also can maintain good stability over a long test of 20 h, which is similar to the result (Figure S16, Supporting Information) without using 0.4 m N2H4. All the above discussion and experimental results show that the presence of N2H4 has little effect on the HER performance for the prepared CoFeNiCrMnP/NF.

The prepared high entropy electrocatalysts are further measured in 1.0 m KOH and 0.4 m hydrazine electrolyte to study the electrocatalytic activity of HzOR. First, the CoFeNiCrMnP/NF is used as working electrode and tested in different concentrations of hydrazine (**Figure 5**a). It can be clearly seen that the catalytic performance of the catalyst is improved with the increase of hydrazine hydrate concentration in a certain range, demonstrating the good responsiveness to N2H4. In addition, compared with the conventional OER curve without adding N2H4, the voltage of CoFeNiCrMnP/NF for HzOR decreases ≈1.62 V (Figure 5b). Compared with other components of high entropy electrocatalysts and commercial RuO2, the CoFeNiCrMnP/NF also displays the best performance. In Figure 5c, the CoFeNi-CrMnP/NF exhibits the better HzOR activity with an initial potential of 245 mV (vs RHE). In addition, the lower overpotential of 288 mV can be realized at 200 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which is smaller than CoNiCrMnP/NF (319 mV), CoFeCrMnP/NF (336 mV),

**Figure 6.** a) *C*dl fitting values and b) ECSA normalized performance of prepared high entropy samples. c) The HER and HzOR catalytic activities of series of CoFeNiCrMnP/NF samples. The bifunctional catalytic performance of CoFeNiCrMnP/NF prepared with different concentrations of d) Co2<sup>+</sup> and e) P source. f) The contribution degree of each single metal for the improved catalytic performance after the normalization by each atomic contents.

CoFeNiCrP/NF (347 mV), FeNiCrMnP/NF (438 mV), and CoFeNiMn/NF (310 mV) (Figure 5d).

In Figure 5e, the CoFeNiCrMnP/NF electrocatalyst has a lowest Tafel slope of 1.8 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> among all prepared samples, while the smallest semicircle of CoFeNiCrMnP/NF can be confirmed from the EIS spectra with equivalent circuit and fitted parameters (Figure 5f; Table S2, Supporting Information), suggesting the optimal reaction kinetics for HzOR. By systematic comparison with reported material at 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, the HzOR activity of CoFeNiCrMnP/NF has proved to be superior (Figure 5g; Table S4, Supporting Information). In Figure 5h, the current density of CoFeNiCrMnP/NF electrode decreased with the increase of test time, but the current density returned to the initial current density of 60 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> after the addition of hydrazine hydrate. Those results suggest that the decrease in current density is due to the consumption of hydrazine hydrate in the electrolyte, rather than the decrease in the activity of the CoFeNiCrMnP/NF. In addition, the CoFeNiCrMnP/NF catalyst displays even better durability in HzOR. The ADT test is shown in Figure S18 (Supporting Information), the SA and the shape of LSV curves remains stable after 30 000 CV, where the SA maintains 99.2% and LSV only has an inappreciable shift of potential.

The electrochemically active surface area is evaluated using a double layer capacitor (*C*dl). Figure S19 (Supporting Information) shows the CV curves of CoFeNiCrMnP/NF, CoNiCrMnP/NF, CoFeCrMnP/NF, CoFeNiCrP/NF, FeNiCrMnP/NF, and CoFeNiMn/NF samples. The corresponding *C*dl and ECSA values are calculated and shown in **Figure 6**a and Figure S20 (Supporting Information). The CoFeNiCrMnP/NF has a higher *C*dl value of ≈73 mF cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> compared to the CoNiCrMnP/NF (62 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2), CoFeCrMnP/NF (45 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2), CoFeNiCrP/NF (11 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2), FeNiCrMnP/NF (7 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2), and CoFeNiMn/NF (48 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2), which means that it has more active sites available. The ECSA normalized performance are shown in Figure 6b and Figure S21 (Supporting Information). The CoFeNiCrMnP/NF samples still display remarkable better bifunctional catalytic activities than other four-element samples for HER and HzOR. This result proves that the larger specific surface area may be only one of the factors affecting the activity of the CoFeNiCrMnP/NF catalyst.

A series of CoFeNiCrMnP/NF catalysts are further obtained by using different applied potentials versus Ag/AgCl (−1, −1.5, −2.0, and −2.5 V) to gain more insight information for synthesis of high entropy catalysts. Their catalytic performance are measured for both HER and HzOR and shown in Figures S22 and S23 (Supporting Information). The CoFeNiCrMnP/NF catalyst shows poor catalytic activity for HER/HzOR when using applied potential of −1 V to conduct the electrodeposition. Further increasing the applied potential to −1.5 V, the CoFeNiCrMnP/NF catalyst achieves significantly improved bifunctional catalytic performance. The best performance is realized at the applied potential of −2.0 V and the bifunctional performance then decreases with the potential continues to rise to −2.5 V (Figure 6c). Thus, the applied potential of −2.0 V is used as the optimal electrodeposition condition to prepare the high entropy electrocatalysts. Different applied potential may be directly related to the loading mass of catalysts and the thickness of catalyst layer, thus affecting their electrocatalytic activities.

Based on the above ICP result, the proportion of each element is not the same as the amount of raw material added due to different redox potentials among various elements. To

systematically study the contribution degree of different metal atoms to bifunctional performance, a series of high-entropy materials are prepared by adjusting the amount of different metal salts and P sources. Their performance are further tested for HER/HzOR and shown in Figure 6d and Figure S24 (Supporting Information). The bifunctional performance of CoFeNi-CrMnP/NF increases from 0.3, 0.6 to 0.9 m and reaches a steady state even further increasing the concentrations. This result confirms the important role of P-modification in regulating the performance of high-entropy catalysts. According to the previously reported work,[47,48] the modification of P-anions contributes to regulating the electronic structure and adsorption free energy of reaction intermediates on the catalyst surface, resulting in greatly improved catalytic activity.

A series of CoFeNiCrMnP/NF samples are also synthesized by using different concentrations of Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, Fe3<sup>+</sup>, Cr<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>, Mn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup>, and Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> solutions. As shown in Figure 6e and Figures S25–S30 (Supporting Information), all obtained CoFeNiCrMnP/NF catalysts show enhanced bifunctional catalytic activities of HER and HzOR compared with the corresponding four-element control samples (0 m). In addition, the CoFeNiCrMnP/NF shows the first increased and then decreased bifunctional catalytic performance with increasing concentration of each metal salts. Meanwhile, the loading mass of those high entropy samples are also measured, which exhibit the universal phenomenon of slowly increasing as the amount of raw materials increased. The contribution degrees of each metal are further calculated by comparing the catalytic performance between the optimal CoFeNi-CrMnP/NF and other four-element control samples (CoFeNi-CrP/NF, CoNiCrMnP/NF, FeNiCrMnP/NF, CoFeCrMnP/NF, and CoFeNiMnP/NF). As shown in Figure S31 (Supporting Information), the addition of Co metal demonstrates the contribution degree of 36.2% and 48.3% for the improved performance of HER and HzOR. However, after the atomic content normalization, the normalized contribution degree of Co metal become smallest among all elements (Figure 6f). The main influencing elements seems to be Fe and Ni for HER, while the P modification and Cr metal may contribute a lot for HzOR. Therefore, the apparent high impact of Co on the bifunctional catalytic performance may be due to its higher contents (61.2%) in the CoFeNiCrMnP/NF sample.

The CoP/NF sample is further synthesized and its catalytic performance of HER/HzOR is measured. In Figure S32 (Supporting Information), the CoFeNiCrMnP/NF delivers much higher bifunctional catalytic activities compared to the pristine CoP/NF even under a lower loading mass. This result indicates the necessity of high entropy compositions to further promote the bifunctional catalytic performance for both HER and HzOR. To study the intrinsic catalytic activity of both samples, the ECSA normalized performance are shown in Figure S33 (Supporting Information). The CoP/NF sample has a larger ECSA value but a lower catalytic performance than CoFeNiCrMnP/NF. Those results demonstrate that the CoFeNiCrMnP/NF catalyst has intrinsic higher catalytic performance of HER and HzOR than CoP/NF sample due to the advantages of high entropy compositions.

Given the excellent bifunctional catalytic activity of the CoFeNiCrMnP/NF, we further use it as both cathode/anode and investigate its actual performance in a two-electrode device, as shown in **Figure 7**a. First of all, the LSV curves of OER–HER and HzOR–HER systems are evaluated in 1 m KOH electrolyte with and without 0.4 m N2H4. In Figure 7b, the CoFeNiCrMnP/NF||CoFeNiCrMnP/NF electrolyser requires a voltage of 1.68 V to obtain the current density of 200 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, while the hydrazine-assisted electrolyser delivers a cell voltage of only 0.14 V, which is almost 1.54 V lower than OER–HER system. In addition, the CoNiCrMnP/NF, CoFeCrMnP/NF, CoFeNiCrP/NF, FeNiCrMnP/NF, and CoFeNiMn/NF are also used to assemble the HzOR–HER devices and compare the performance. In Figure 7c,d, the CoFeNi-CrMnP/NF electrode shows the best performance among all samples, including higher current density and lower cell voltage. For example, at a current density of 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, the voltage of CoFeNiCrMnP/NF||CoFeNiCrMnP/NF is only 94 mV, lower than CoNiCrMnP/NF||CoNiCrMnP/NF (194 mV), CoFeCrMnP/NF||CoFeCrMnP/NF (226 mV), CoFeNiCrP/NF||CoFeNiCrP/NF (218 mV), FeNi-CrMnP/NF||FeNiCrMnP/NF (452 mV), CoFeNiMn/NF||CoFeNiMn/NF (154 mV), and commercial Pt/C||RuO2 (990 mV). Moreover, at the voltage of 150 mV, the current density can reach 243 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which is higher than other control samples. Figure 7e shows the stable electrolysis of CoFeNiCrMnP/NF||CoFeNiCrMnP/NF over 20 h. The decrease in current density is due to the consumption of hydrazine hydrate. Meanwhile, its catalytic activity maintains well after 3000 CV cycles (Figure S34, Supporting Information).

The overall electrolysis performance of CoFeNiCrMnP/NF is superior to most of the other reported bifunctional electrodes (Figure 7f; Table S5, Supporting Information). In addition, the origin of the current shown in Figures 4a and 5c is studied by measuring the corresponding products and the Faradaic efficiencies for both HER and HzOR. The gas products are analyzed by GC technology, while the Faradaic efficiencies of CoFeNi-CrMnP/NF sample are calculated by comparing the actual volume of gas products with consumed electricity. As shown in Figure 7g,h, the CoFeNiCrMnP/NF catalyst shows the volumes of H2 and N2 increases linearly with increasing test time, which match well with the theoretical values. In addition, the CoFeNi-CrMnP/NF sample achieves the stable Faradaic efficiencies of up to 98% for the cathode HER and anode HzOR process. These excellent electrochemical properties indicate that CoFeNi-CrMnP/NF catalyst has promising applications in hydrazineassisted water electrolysis for hydrogen.

To study the change of composition and morphology for CoFeNiCrMnP/NF, a series post-characterization such as XRD, SEM, TEM, and XPS are conducted after the HER and HzOR tests of 20 h. As shown in Figure S35 (Supporting Information), the post-XRD patterns confirm that the CoFeNiCrMnP/NF maintains the amorphous characteristics. In addition, post-SEM and post-TEM images suggest that the morphology of CoFeNiCrMnP/NF transforms to hierarchical nanosheet structure (Figures S36 and S37, Supporting Information). The post-XPS result conveys information about composition and valence states, where all five metal elements and P element remain after a prolonged electrocatalysis except for signal attenuation (Figures S38 and S39, Supporting Information). After the chronoamperometric test, the composition of P is mainly P–O species in the spent sample, which is similar to the sample that is exposed in air (Figure S10f, Supporting Information). According to the

**Figure 7.** a) Overall diagram of N2H4-assisted water electrolysis. b) LSV curves of CoFeNiCrMnP/NF-based electrolyzer in 1 m KOH electrolyte with and without 0.4 m N2H4. c) The LSV curves and d) comparison diagram of high entropy samples. e) Chronoamperometric response of CoFeNiCrMnP/NF for N2H4-assisted water electrolysis. f) The comparison of catalytic activity of CoFeNiCrMnP/NF with other reported catalysts. The Faradaic efficiencies and gas products when using CoFeNiCrMnP/NF as catalysts for g) HER and h) HzOR.

above results, the morphology and valence state of this CoFeNi-CrMnP/NF high entropy catalyst changes to a certain extent after long-term HER and HzOR tests, but the element compositions maintain well, endowing its high bifunctional catalytic stability.

In a word, we measured the loading mass of those high entropy materials and demonstrated that their loading mass may not be a key factor to make the differential performance of CoFeNi-CrMnP/NF with the other four-element samples. In addition, the ECSA normalized performance confirm that the CoFeNi-CrMnP/NF has an intrinsic higher bifunctional activities for HER and HzOR.[49,50] Meanwhile, we synthesized a series of highentropy materials by adjusting the amount of different metal salts and P sources and tested their performance for HER/HzOR. The result confirms that all five metals and P-anions may contribute to the improvement of catalytic activity for CoFeNiCrMnP/NF catalyst. The higher atomic contribution degree of Fe and Ni metals are proposed for HER, while the P modification and Cr metal exhibit the possible main promotion effect for HzOR. The high atomic content of Co metal actually also affects the apparent activity of high-entropy materials. Thus, the key reasons for the superior bifunctional activity of CoFeNiCrMnP/NF may be attributed to the P-modification and polymetallic synergistic catalytic effects.

# **3. Conclusion**

In summary, a unique regulation strategy is exploited to clarify the synergetic effect between P-anions modification and various metals coordination based on an amorphous high entropy system. The P-anions can achieve synchronous modification in preparing CoFeNiCrMnP/NF electrode by one-step electrodeposition co-reduction, thus enhancing bifunctional catalytic activity of electrocatalyst. The optimized CoFeNiCrMnP/NF exhibits the small overpotentials of 51 and 268 mV at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for HER and HzOR, surpassing the state-of-the-art materials. In addition, the coupled HER/HzOR system is designed by

using CoFeNiCrMnP/NF and shows superior performance with a low cell voltage of 91 mV to achieve 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, indicating its promising potential in hydrogen production. By virtue of systematic analysis, we speculate that the synergistic advantages of P-modification and polymetallic catalytic centers in improving the bifunctional catalytic performances of high entropy for hydrazine-assisted water electrolysis. However, it is worth emphasizing that although the superiority of hydrazine oxidation to replace OER is a feasible way, considering the safety and easy decomposition of hydrazine hydrate, OER is still preferred in existing commercial water electrolyzers. In the catalytic process, the strong reduction of hydrazine hydrate leads to the degradation of the activity of the catalyst, and its continuous consumption leads to unfavorable practicality and scalability of HzOR. Therefore, the design of advanced catalysts and electrolyzers to meet the above challenges is expected to promote the application of HzOR in electrolyzed water devices of the future.

#### 4. Experimental Section

Materials: Hydrochloric acid was gotten from Country Shuanglin Chemical. Potassium hydroxide (KOH, AR), sodium hypophosphite monohydrate (NaH<sub>2</sub>PO<sub>2</sub>·H<sub>2</sub>O, AR), Ammonium chloride (NH<sub>4</sub>Cl, AR), absolute ethanol (C2H5OH, 99.7%), cobalt nitrate (II) hexahydrate (Co(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O, 98%), nickel nitrate (II) hexahydrate (Ni(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O, 98%), Ferric chloride hexahydrate (FeCl<sub>3</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O, 98%), Manganese chloride (MnCl<sub>2</sub>, 99%), and Chromium nitrate (Cr(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub>, 99%) were offered for sale by McLean, Inc. 1.0 mm thick Ni foams were available for purchase from SaiBo electrochemical material network. None of the compounds were further processed before use.

Preparation of Catalysts: Synthesis of self-supporting high-entropy electrodes: The nickel foam was initially prepared using a standard procedure that involved soaking a portion of nickel foam (1 × 2 cm<sup>2</sup>) in a 1 M hydrochloric acid solution for 15 min to remove any potential surface oxide layers, followed by three rinses in which ethanol and water were alternated. Subsequently, high entropy samples were in situ electrochemically deposited on the NF. First, the electrolyte was prepared by adding 1.2 m  $\text{Na}_2\text{HPO}_2\cdot\text{H}_2\text{O}$ , 0.6 m  $\text{NH}_4\text{Cl}$ , 0.007 m  $\text{Co}(\text{NO}_3)_2\cdot\text{6H}_2\text{O}$ , 0.007 m  $Ni(NO_3)_2 \cdot 6H_2O$ , 0.007 M MnCl<sub>2</sub>, 0.007 M FeCl<sub>3</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O, and 0.007 M Cr(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub> in the electrodeposition bath. Then, a three-electrode system was constructed by using the double-junction reference electrode (saturated Ag/AgCl), the counter electrode (graphite rod), and the working electrode (prefabricated nickel foam). Next, a voltage of -2 V was supplied continuously on nickel foam for 400 s to prepare the corresponding electrodes. Then, the electrolyte attached to the catalyst surface was rinsed with distilled water and ethanol, and the CoFeNiCrMnP/NF was prepared by further drying. The methods were the same for making CoP/NF, CoNi-CrMnP/NF, CoFeCrMnP/NF, CoFeNiMnP/NF, CoFeNiCrP/NF, and FeNi-CrMnP/NF electrodes as described above, with the exception of the composition in different electrolytes.

Material Characterizations: On a DX-2700 diffractometer (made in China by Dandong Haoyuan Instrument Co. Ltd.), powder X-ray diffraction (PXRD) was performed to examine the phase compositions and crystallographic details of catalysts. Using a scanning electron microscope (SEM, Hitachi SU8100) and high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM), the morphology and structure of prepared samples were examined. To confirm the chemical states of the elements, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was performed on a PHI5300 apparatus using monochromatic Mg K as the source of radiation. A technique called inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES) was used to measure the atomic contents of Co, Fe, Ni, Cr, P, and Mn elements in the final sample.

Electrochemical Measurements: Electrochemical investigations were carried out using a three-electrode configuration. Whereas reference and counter electrodes were built of saturated calomel (Hg/HgO) and graphite rod, respectively, working electrodes are made of self-supported materials. The commercial Pt/C and RuO<sub>2</sub> powders were manually deposited onto NF supporter as working electrode. While the HER and OER performance were examined in a 1.0 m KOH electrolyte, and the HzOR performance was tested in 1.0 M KOH with 0.2 M N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> electrolyte by linear sweep voltammetry (LSV, scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup>). Using the following formula, the potential of the reversible hydrogen electrode was calculated from all the results:  $E_{\text{(vs RHE)}} = E_{\text{(vs Hg/HgCl2)}} + E_{\text{(Hg/HgCl2)}} (0.241 \text{ V}) + 0.059 \text{ pH}.$ The electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) data were gathered at a fixed overpotential in the frequency range of ( $10^{-2}$ – $10^5$  Hz). The electrochemical double-layer capacitance ( $C_{\rm dl}$ ) was determined using CV curves with scanning rates of 20, 40, 60, 80, and 100 mV  $s^{-1}$ . [51–53] The data were all provided with iR-correction and the percentage of iR correction was 85% in the polarization plot in the electrochemical study.

#### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

### **Acknowledgements**

K.L. and J.H. contributed equally to this work. This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (22205205). The Zhejiang Provincial Natural Science Foundation of China (LQ22B030008), the Science Foundation of Zhejiang Sci-Tech University (ZSTU) under grant no. 21062337-Y; 22062312-Y, and the Excellent Dissertation Cultivation Foundation of ZSTU (LM-YP2022011). L.C. acknowledges funding from the UKRI-funded Postdoctoral Fellowships (Horizon Europe MSCA Postdoctoral Fellowships in the UK), 2021 (EP/X022986/1). The authors would like to thank the shiyanjia lab (www. shiyanjia.com) for the XPS measurements.

#### Conflict of Interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

#### **Keywords**

amorphous structures, bifunctional activity, high-entropy compounds, Pmodification, water electrolysis

> Received: March 13, 2023 Revised: June 13, 2023 Published online: June 22, 2023

- [1] J. Zhu, L. Hu, P. Zhao, L. Y. S. Lee, K.-Y. Wong, Chem. Rev. 2020, 120,
- [2] C. Mu, H. Xin, Q. Luo, Y. Li, F. Ma, J. Mater. Chem. A 2023, 11, 7016.
- [3] D. Feng, R. Ye, Y. Tong, X. Ren, P. Chen, J. Colloid Interface Sci. 2023,
- [4] D. Feng, X.-Y. Liu, R. Ye, W. Huang, Y. Tong, J. Colloid Interface Sci. 2023, 634, 693.

- [5] K. Li, X. Cen, J. He, Y. Tong, *Chem. Commun.* **2023**, *59*, 5575.
- [6] L. Li, X. Cao, J. Huo, J. Qu, W. Chen, C. Liu, Y. Zhao, H. Liu, G. Wang, *J. Energy Chem.* **2023**, *76*, 195.
- [7] F. Zeng, C. Mebrahtu, L. Liao, A. K. Beine, R. Palkovits, *J. Energy Chem.* **2022**, *69*, 301.
- [8] M.-I. Jamesh, M. Harb, *J. Energy Chem.* **2021**, *56*, 299.
- [9] J. Tian, Y. Zhu, X. Yao, L. Yang, C. Du, Z. Lv, M. Hou, S. Zhang, X. Ma, C. Cao, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2023**, *11*, 5288.
- [10] S. Wang, Y. Zhang, X. Deng, Z. Ma, R. Cheng, Z. Wan, J. Li, X. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2023**, *11*, 5222.
- [11] N. K. Katiyar, S. Dhakar, A. Parui, P. Gakhad, A. K. Singh, K. Biswas, C. S. Tiwary, S. Sharma, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, 14000.
- [12] L. Gao, J. Xie, S. Liu, S. Lou, Z. Wei, X. Zhu, B. Tang, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2020**, *12*, 24701.
- [13] X. Xu, T. Wang, L. Dong, W. Lu, X. Miao, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2020**, *8*, 7973.
- [14] Y. Li, J. Li, Q. Qian, X. Jin, Y. Liu, Z. Li, Y. Zhu, Y. Guo, G. Zhang, *Small* **2021**, *17*, 2008148.
- [15] C. Chen, H. Wen, P.-P. Tang, P. Wang, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2021**, *9*, 4564.
- [16] Y. Li, Y. Zhao, F.-M. Li, Z. Dang, P. Gao, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2021**, *13*, 34457.
- [17] H. Roh, H. Choi, J.-S. Kim, H. Shin, T. Park, K. Yong, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2022**, *606*, 154951.
- [18] P. Shen, B. Zhou, Z. Chen, W. Xiao, Y. Fu, J. Wan, Z. Wu, L. Wang, *Appl. Catal., B* **2023**, *325*, 122305.
- [19] Y. Guo, X. Liu, Y. Zang, Y. Wu, Q. Zhang, Z. Wang, Y. Liu, Z. Zheng, H. Cheng, B. Huang, Y. Dai, P. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2022**, *10*, 17297.
- [20] T. A. A. Batchelor, J. K. Pedersen, S. H. Winther, I. E. Castelli, K. W. Jacobsen, J. Rossmeisl, *Joule* **2019**, *3*, 834.
- [21] H. Qiao, X. Wang, Q. Dong, H. Zheng, G. Chen, M. Hong, C.-P. Yang, M. Wu, K. He, L. Hu, *Nano Energy* **2021**, *86*, 106029.
- [22] Y. Yao, Z. Huang, P. Xie, S. D. Lacey, R. J. Jacob, H. Xie, F. Chen, A. Nie, T. Pu, M. Rehwoldt, D. Yu, M. R. Zachariah, C. Wang, R. Shahbazian-Yassar, J. Li, L. Hu, *Science* **2018**, *359*, 1489.
- [23] Y. Yao, Q. Dong, A. Brozena, J. Luo, J. Miao, M. Chi, C. Wang, I. G. Kevrekidis, Z. J. Ren, J. Greeley, G. Wang, A. Anapolsky, L. Hu, *Science* **2023**, *376*, eabn3103.
- [24] D. Lai, Q. Kang, F. Gao, Q. Lu, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, 17913.
- [25] B. Deng, Z. Wang, W. Chen, J. T. Li, D. X. Luong, R. A. Carter, G. Gao, B. I. Yakobson, Y. Zhao, J. M. Tour, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 262.
- [26] X. Zhao, Z. Xue, W. Chen, Y. Wang, T. Mu, *ChemSusChem* **2020**, *13*, 2038.
- [27] T. Zhang, Y.-L. Meng, Y.-H. Zhao, J.-C. Ni, Y. Pan, Y. Dai, Z. Tan, X.-F. Wang, X.-Z. Song, *Chem. Commun.* **2022**, *58*, 7682.
- [28] L. Lin, Z. Ding, G. Karkera, T. Diemant, M. V. Kante, D. Agrawal, H. Hahn, J. Aghassi-Hagmann, M. Fichtner, B. Breitung, S. Schweidler, *Small Struct.* **2023**, 2300012.

- [29] H. Peng, Y. Xie, Z. Xie, Y. Wu, W. Zhu, S. Liang, L. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, 18318.
- [30] L. Wang, L. Zhang, X. Lu, F. Wu, X. Sun, H. Zhao, Q. Li, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *465*, 142766.
- [31] R. He, L. Yang, Y. Zhang, X. Wang, S. Lee, T. Zhang, L. Li, Z. Liang, J. Chen, J. Li, A. Ostovari Moghaddam, J. Llorca, M. Ibáñez, J. Arbiol, Y. Xu, A. Cabot, *Energy Storage Mater.* **2023**, *58*, 287.
- [32] Y. Kobayashi, H. Y. Teah, S. Yokoyama, R. Shoji, N. Hanada, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2022**, *10*, 15046.
- [33] J. Chen, Y. Ling, X. Yu, G. Wang, L. Huang, A. He, Q. Fan, S. Qin, S. Xiang, M. Xu, Z. Han, J. Du, Q. Xu, *J. Alloys Compd.* **2022**, *929*, 167344.
- [34] S. J. Percival, P. Lu, D. R. Lowry, T. M. Nenoff, *Langmuir* **2022**, *38*, 1923.
- [35] Z. Shojaei, G. R. Khayati, E. Darezereshki, *Int. J. Miner., Metall. Mater.* **2022**, *29*, 1683.
- [36] H. Bian, R. Wang, K. Zhang, H. Zheng, M. Wen, Z. Li, Z. Li, G. Wang, G. Xie, X. Liu, L. Jiang, *Surf. Coat. Technol.* **2023**, *459*, 129407.
- [37] S.-Q. Chang, C.-C. Cheng, P.-Y. Cheng, C.-L. Huang, S.-Y. Lu, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *446*, 137452.
- [38] D. Kim, S. Surendran, Y. Jeong, Y. Lim, S. Im, S. Park, J. Y. Kim, S. Kim, T.-H. Kim, B. Koo, K. Jin, U. Sim, *Adv. Mater. Technol.* **2022**, 2200882.
- [39] R. Wang, J. Huang, X. Zhang, J. Han, Z. Zhang, T. Gao, L. Xu, S. Liu, P. Xu, B. Song, *ACS Nano* **2022**, *16*, 3593.
- [40] J. Joo, T. Kim, J. Lee, S.-I. Choi, K. Lee, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1806682.
- [41] L. Fan, Y. Ji, G. Wang, J. Chen, K. Chen, X. Liu, Z. Wen, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 7224.
- [42] P. Li, X. Wan, J. Su, W. Liu, Y. Guo, H. Yin, D. Wang, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 11667.
- [43] C.-L. Huang, Y.-G. Lin, C.-L. Chiang, C.-K. Peng, D. Senthil Raja, C.- T. Hsieh, Y.-A. Chen, S.-Q. Chang, Y.-X. Yeh, S.-Y. Lu, *Appl. Catal., B* **2023**, *320*, 122016.
- [44] Z. Chen, D. Wei, Q. Li, X. Wang, S. Yu, L. Liu, B. Liu, S. Xie, J. Wang, D. Chen, T. Hayat, X. Wang, *J. Cleaner Prod.* **2018**, *181*, 745.
- [45] Y. Zhang, J. Fu, H. Zhao, R. Jiang, F. Tian, R. Zhang, *Appl. Catal., B* **2019**, *257*, 117899.
- [46] L. Xie, Q. Zong, Q. Zhang, J. Sun, Z. Zhou, B. He, Z. Zhu, S. E., Y. Yao, *J. Alloys Compd.* **2019**, *781*, 783.
- [47] B. Zhang, F. Yang, X. Liu, N. Wu, S. Che, Y. Li, *Appl. Catal., B* **2021**, *298*, 120494.
- [48] H. Liu, F. Yang, Z. Xu, X. Yan, F. Chen, C. Xu, S. Che, Y. Li, *Electrochim. Acta* **2022**, *430*, 141075.
- [49] R. Ye, J. Zhu, Y. Tong, D. Feng, P. Chen, *J. Energy Chem.* **2023**, *83*, 180.
- [50] R. Ye, Y. Tong, D. Feng, P. Chen, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2023**, *11*, 4691.
- [51] W. Huang, Y. Tong, D. Feng, Z. Guo, R. Ye, P. Chen, *ChemSusChem* **2023**, *16*, 202202078.
- [52] D. Feng, X. Ren, Y. Tong, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2023**, https://doi. org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2023.05.229.
- [53] X. Cheng, Y. Tong, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2023**, *11*, 3219.