---
source: Li 等 - 2024 - Ruthenium Nanoclusters and Single Atoms on α‐MoCN‐Doped Carbon Achieves Low‐InputInput‐Free Hydrog.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 68.036s
generated: 2026-01-10T07:33:45.698975Z
---

Hydrogen Evolution Reaction

Zitierweise: Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2024, 63, e202316755 doi.org/10.1002/anie.202316755

# Ruthenium Nanoclusters and Single Atoms on $\alpha$ -MoC/N-Doped Carbon Achieves Low-Input/Input-Free Hydrogen Evolution via Decoupled/Coupled Hydrazine Oxidation

Yapeng Li<sup>+</sup>, Shuwen Niu<sup>+</sup>, Peigen Liu<sup>+</sup>, Rongrong Pan, Huaikun Zhang, Nazir Ahmad, Yi Shi, Xiao Liang, Mingyu Cheng, Shenghua Chen, Junyi Du, Maolin Hu,\* Dingsheng Wang,\* Wei Chen,\* and Yadong Li

**Abstract:** The hydrazine oxidation-assisted  $H_2$  evolution method promises low-input and input-free hydrogen production. However, developing high-performance catalysts for hydrazine oxidation (HzOR) and hydrogen evolution (HER) is challenging. Here, we introduce a bifunctional electrocatalyst α-MoC/N–C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub>, merging ruthenium (Ru) nanoclusters (NCs) and single atoms (SA) into cubic α-MoC nanoparticles-decorated N-doped carbon (α-MoC/N–C) nanowires, through electrodeposition. The composite showcases exceptional activity for both HzOR and HER, requiring -80 mV and -9 mV respectively to reach  $10 \text{ mA cm}^{-2}$ . Theoretical and experimental insights confirm the importance of two Ru species for bifunctionality: NCs enhance the conductivity, and its coexistence with SA balances the H ad/desorption for HER and facilitates the initial dehydrogenation during the HzOR. In the overall hydrazine splitting (OHzS) system, α-MoC/N–C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub> excels as both anode and cathode materials, achieving  $10 \text{ mA cm}^{-2}$  at just 64 mV. The zinc hydrazine (Zn–Hz) battery assembled with α-MoC/N–C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub> cathode and Zn foil anode can exhibit 97.3% energy efficiency, as well as temporary separation of hydrogen gas during the discharge process. Therefore, integrating Zn–Hz with OHzS system enables self-powered  $H_2$  evolution, even in hydrazine sewage. Overall, the amalgamation of NCs with SA achieves diverse catalytic activities for yielding multifold hydrogen gas through advanced cell-integrated-electrolyzer system.

#### Introduction

Replacing the kinetics-sluggish oxygen evolution reaction (OER, 1.23 V vs reverse hydrogen electrode (RHE)) with the thermodynamically favorable hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR,  $N_2H_4+4OH^-=N_2+4H_2O+4e^-$ , -0.33 V vs RHE), and coupling it with the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) to create overall hydrazine splitting (OHzS) system, can lead to a substantial reduce in energy requirements for producing green hydrogen. Furthermore, the by-product at the anode is nitrogen, which is completely free of carbon. The mixture of nitrogen and hydrogen ( $N_2$  and  $N_2$ ) is

inherently safer than the potentially explosive combination of oxygen and hydrogen ( $O_2/H_2$ ) in the traditional overall water splitting (OWS) system.<sup>[2]</sup> A groundbreaking study conducted by Sun et al. has demonstrated the hydrogen can be produced at only an applied voltage of 1.0 V with the current density of 500 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> in 1.0 M KOH/0.5 M N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub>, resulting in a remarkable 80 % decrease in energy consumption compared to conventional OWS. This study effectively showcases the energy-saving advantages of hydrazine oxidation-assisted hydrogen evolution strategy.<sup>[3]</sup> Hydrazine is also extensively used in various industries, serving as a rocket propellant, an anti-corrosive agent in

[\*] Y. Li,\* S. Niu,\* R. Pan, Prof. M. Hu, Prof. W. Chen Key Laboratory of Carbon Materials of Zhejiang Province, College of Chemistry and Materials Engineering, Wenzhou University Wenzhou, Zhejiang 325035, P. R. China

E-mail: wchen@wzu.edu.cn

maolin@wzu.edu.cn

Y. Li, + P. Liu, + R. Pan, Y. Shi

Center of Advanced Nanocatalysis (CAN), Department of Applied Chemistry, University of Science and Technology of China Hefei, Anhui 230026, P. R. China

S Niu

College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Qingdao University

Qingdao, Shangdong 266071, P. R. China

H. Zhang, N. Ahmad, M. Cheng CAS Key Laboratory of Materials for Energy Conversion, Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Science and Technology of China Hefei, Anhui 230026, P. R. China

X. Liang, S. Chen, Prof. D. Wang, Prof. Y. Li Department of Chemistry, Tsinghua University Beijing 100084, P. R. China

E-mail: wangdingsheng@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn

. Du

Key Laboratory of Multifunctional Nanomaterials and Smart Systems, Division of Advanced Materials, Suzhou Institute of Nano-Tech and Nano-Bionics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Suzhou, Jiangsu 215123, P. R. China

[+] These authors contributed equally to this work

15213757, 2024, 30, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202316755 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

thermal power stations, and a reducing agent in nuclear facilities. This usage contributes to the release and accumulation of hazardous hydrazine waste in industrial sewage.[4] Therefore, hydrazine oxidation assisted water electrolysis can not only yield high-valence hydrogen in the cathode compartment, but enable rapid purification of toxic hydrazine sewage without the need for extra oxidants or complex separation process.[5] For example, Sun et al. designed a hybrid seawater system coupling HzOR to rapidly degrade hydrazine into approximately 3 ppb residual at a rate of 4.34�0.007 molh <sup>1</sup> gcat <sup>1</sup> during hydrogen production at 500 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . [6] However, this method still requires extra energy input for electrolysis.

A recent advancement involves a novel rechargeable alkaline zinc hydrazine (Zn Hz) battery, which has achieved efficient hydrogen generation and separation by utilizing decoupled hydrazine splitting through two temporally separate cathodic reactions (HzOR during charging and HER at discharging), showcasing a decoupled electrolyzer system for self-powered hydrogen generation.[7] For instance, Wang et al. demonstrated that the assembled Zn Hz battery with NiCoP/NF as the cathode exhibits a high energy efficiency of over 95% with the discharge voltage of 307 mV and charge voltage of 322 mV at 0.4 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . [8] It's worth noting that, the anodic HzOR process is pivotal for efficient hydrogen production in both the OHzS system and Zn Hz battery system. Despite significant achievements, the performance of current HzOR materials is still in development as it is higher than the theoretical value due to the larger size of hydrazine molecules.[9] Furthermore, developing high-performance bifunctional catalysts for both HzOR and HER is challenging because the active species required for these reactions are generally distinct, which are nevertheless crucial for enabling both HzOR and HER simultaneously or within the same spatial configuration, essential for the efficient operation of OHzS electrolyzers or Zn-Hz battery. Understanding the rate-determining steps (RDS) involved in water dissociation and dehydrogenation kinetics in both alkaline HER and HzOR processes is complex, requiring careful consideration of intelligent and precise materials design strategies.

Ruthenium (Ru)-based compounds exhibit several favorable attributes, including favorable binding energies with H, robust thermal stability, effective anti-corrosion capabilities, cost-effectiveness (roughly one-fifth the cost of Pt), and the potential of reducing the water dissociation energy to benefit the alkaline/neutral HER process, thus are considered as a competitive alternative to platinum (Pt).[1,10] Notably, the Ru site can stabilize the HzOR intermediates and lower the energy barrier for the RDS.[1,11] Thus, Ru species are anticipated to serve as potential bifunctional centers for H2 evolution through decoupled or coupled HzOR processes.[1,9,12] Further reducing the size of Ru particle into single atoms (SAs) can achieve 100% efficiency in atomic utilization, reducing the reliance on precious metal content.[13] However, the precisely defined coordination structures of SAs might lead to single-function active sites, potentially limiting their effectiveness in catalytic reactions that involve multiple-electron transfers or complex steps.[14] To surmount the constraints imposed by linear scaling relationships among various intermediates in multistep reactions and enhance catalytic activity, introducing nanoparticles (NPs) or nanoclusters (NCs) with customizable electronic properties to decorate the single-atom catalysts (SACs) may reconcile the highly exposed surfaces, numerous active sites, and high unit activity together, potentially achieving the synergistic interaction to improve overall activity.[15] Particularly, the coexistence of metal-substrate interactions of SAs and metal-metal interactions of NPs/NCs in the hybrid system would offer greater flexibility in electronic modulation, giving rise to multifunctional active sites with divergent electronic properties.[16] Additionally, during the preparation of metal SAs, metal NPs or NCs are mostly concomitant, and this once-challenging aspect is beneficially harnessed for designing bifunctional electrocatalysts.[17] Hence, amalgamating the metallic and oxidant species is pivotal in crafting advanced multifunctional electrocatalysts.

Herein, one simple electrodeposition technique was applied to prepare a composite material called α-MoC/N C/ RuNSA. In this composite, Ru species, including Ru SAs and Ru NCs, are incorporated onto the cubic α-MoC nanoparticles-decorated N-doped carbon (α-MoC/N C) nanowire arrays, which demonstrates remarkable bifunctional activity for both HER and HzOR under alkaline condition. Especially, the HzOR and HER processes require low potentials of 80 mV and 9 mV, respectively, to achieve a current density of 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . Remarkably, it achieves an industry-level current density of 1000 mAcm <sup>2</sup> at a mere 77 mV for HzOR and 150 mV towards HER, significantly outperforming the performance of the commonly used Pt/C catalyst. Consequently, utilizing the α-MoC/N C/RuNSA as both the anode and cathode catalyst in the coupled OHzS configuration realizes substantial energy-saving benefits, requiring only the applied potentials of 64 and 229 mV to reach 10 and 500 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , respectively. Furthermore, the practical Zn Hz battery assembled with the α-MoC/N C/ RuNSA cathode and Zn foil anode exhibits a low input voltage of 0.406 V and high output voltage of 0.395 V at 0.4 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , coupled with a high energy efficiency of 96% and impressive durability over 324 cycles. Importantly, integrating Zn Hz battery with OHzS electrolyzer enables the self-power demonstration of concurrent H2 evolution without extra output, marking a significant advancement in sustainable energy systems. Further experiments demonstrated the essential role of Ru SA and NC sites in improving the bifunctional activity of α-MoC/N C towards hydrazine oxidation and hydrogen evolution. Theoretical explorations indicate that the Ru NCs can increase the total density of states (DOS) near the Fermi level and augment the adsorption of H2O and N2H4, meanwhile, the presence of Ru SA site appears to equilibrate the free energies for H\* ad-desorption during the HER process and accelerate the dehydrogenation of the N2H4 intermediates in the HzOR cycles.

## *Results and Discussion*

The synthesis procedures illustrated in Figure 1A are costeffective and scalable. Initially, Mo-based precursor nanowire arrays are formed through a solvothermal reaction. Subsequently, nitrogen-doped carbon nanowire arrays, effectively encapsulating uniform cubic α-MoC nanoparticles, are synthesized using a chemical vapor deposition (CVD) method. Finally, the resulting material is decorated with Ru species, including both single-atom sites and nanocluster sites, resulting in the formation of the final sample. Specifically, the Mo-based precursor nanowire arrays with a diameter of about 200 nm (Figure S1, Supporting Information) were successfully grown within carbon nanofibers using a solvothermal reaction at 200 °C.[18] Then, the melamine was employed as carbon source and reductive agent to produce the MoCx-based intermediates. The sintering temperature played a crucial role in obtaining the desired samples.[19] The results from Figures S2–4 indicate that all the samples keep the similar morphology and structure, while 800 °C is suitable to obtain the desired cubic α-MoC phase.[20] The obtained intermediates maintained the similar nanowire structure, as depicted in Figure S4A-C. Highmagnification transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images (Figure S4D) of an individual nanowire shows the uniformly scattered nanoparticles within the region. Besides,

*Figure 1.* The synthetic process and structural characterizations for α-MoC/N C/RuNSA: (A) The schematic illustration of the formation; The aerial view (B) and high-magnification SEM images (C); The TEM images of single wires (D) and the marginal region (E); (F) The XRD pattern and Raman spectrum; (G–J) Aberration corrected HAADF-STEM of nanowires at different regions, the label in I and J is 2 nm; (K) the HAADF-STEM and elemental mapping images of C, N, Ru, and O in the single wires.

(Figure S8D).

peaks (Figure S8B, SI) of α-MoC/N C/RuNSA at 398.6 eV, 400.3 eV, and 401.2 eV correspond to pyridinic N, pyrrolic N, and graphitic N, meaning successful nitrogen doping within the carbon matrix.[23] The ratio of N and Ru in the surface of the α-MoC/N C/RuNSA is nearly 26.7, means the N content is sufficient to provide anchoring sites for Ru. Besides, the similarity between the Mo 3d high-resolution spectra in α-MoC/N C/RuNSA and α-MoC/N C (Figure S8C) further supports the preservation of the intermediate during the electrodeposition process. Additionally, the emergence

of Ru 3p signals confirms the successful deposition of Ru

the X-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern (Figure S5A) confirms the presence of the cubic α-MoC phase on the CFP with two characteristic peaks at 26° and 54°, and the Raman spectrum (Figure S5B) exhibits the characteristic signals of the D and G bands of the carbon structure. XPS analysis, plotted in Figure S5C-F, further reveals the doping of nitrogen element in the carbon matrix, alongside the presence of carbon and molybdenum elements. Hence, small α-MoC nanoparticles decorated nitrogen-doped carbon nanowires are obtained and referred to as α-MoC/N C. This method offers a simpler and safer alternative to traditional CVD techniques that involve the use of hazardous CH4/H2 gas along with the first nitridation treatment in the NH3 atmosphere at elevated temperatures, to result in the production of pure α-MoC.[21] Then, the electrodeposition process adeptly anchors Ru species onto the nitrogen-doped carbon section of the α-MoC/N C composite. The final product, depicted in Figure 1B–D, maintains the original nanowire structure. Figure 1E, a magnified transmission electron microscope (TEM) image, displays the presence of uniformly sized particles, approximately 3.8 nm in diameter (as shown in Figure S6, SI), arranged systematically within the matrix. Furthermore, the similarity between the X-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern and the Raman spectrum of the final product (Figure 1F) compared to the intermediates confirm the effective preservation of the α-MoC/N C structure. The aberration-corrected high-angle annular dark- field scanning transmission electron microscope (HAADF-STEM) images, shown in Figure 1G and Figure S7, display that the lattice fringes of the nanoparticles align with the (200) and (111) planes of the cubic α-MoC phase, and the coexistence of the several graphitized carbon layers exhibiting typical (002) lattice planes. Interestingly, different styles of Ru species can be distinguished within the carbon matrix, indicating the successful deposition of Ru. Further scrutiny of the marginal carbon layer reveals the presence of nanoclusters, marked with yellow circles. Additionally, isolated bright spots, marked by cyan circles, indicate the presence of single atoms. This evidence confirms the existence of two distinct Ru species: single atoms and nanoclusters, as depicted in Figures 1H–J and Figure S6. Besides, the low-magnification HAADF-STEM image along with the corresponding elemental mapping results (Figure 1K) vividly demonstrates the uniform distribution of carbon (C), nitrogen (N), molybdenum (Mo), and ruthenium (Ru) elements throughout the composite. Consequently, the final product is aptly

Synchrotron radiation soft X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) measurements were carried out to analyze the electronic and atomic interactions of Ru species and α-MoC/ N C at the interface. The C K-edge curve results, which depict the prominent C C 1s-π\* and C C 1s-σ\* resonances originating from the carboatomic rings, are presented in Figure 2B at 285.2 and 292.1 eV, respectively. A small enhanced peak at around 287.7 eV is usually associated with carbon bonded with nitrogen, indicating chemical interaction between the Ru species and α-MoC/N C.[24] The additional peak at 288.7 eV and the shoulder at 286.0 eV can be assigned to typical p-d (t2g) and p-d (eg) hybridized orbitals of MoCx, and the slight negative shift supports the electronic modulation of Ru with the substrates.[25] The N K-edge curves shown in Figure 2C provide insights into the nitrogen chemical configurations. Peaks A (at 399.4 eV) and B (at 401.9 eV) correspond to pyridinic and graphitic π\* transitions, respectively, whereas peak C (at 403.1 eV) is associated with the formation of C N C or C N σ\* bonds. Comparison to α-MoC/N C, α-MoC/N C/RuNSA exhibits a strengthened peak at approximately 399.4 eV, indicating the presence of π\* transitions from C N Ru bonding.[26]

named α-MoC/N C/RuNSA. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was conducted to investigate the chemical states of α-MoC/N C/RuNSA. As depicted in the survey spectrum shown in Figure S8A, the elements of Mo, C, Ru, and N are sequentially detected in the wide region, which aligns with the findings from elemental mapping analysis. The high-resolution spectrum of C1s+Ru 3d (Figure 2A) reveals a slight negative shift in the Ru 3d binding energy of the prepared α-MoC/N C/ RuNSA (281.4 eV) compared to RuCl3 (282.4 eV), which suggests that the valence state of Ru on the surface is less than 3+, indicating a reduction of Ru3<sup>+</sup> during the electrodeposition process.[22] Furthermore, the deconvoluted N 1s

Moreover, the Ru K-edge XAS measurements were executed to probe the local coordination environment of the Ru species. In the X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) spectrum of α-MoC/N C/RuNSA (Figure 2D), the curve exhibits a shift to higher energy compared to the Ru foil reference, but is significantly lower than that of RuO2. Overall, it moves slightly towards lower energy than that of RuCl3, implying that the average oxidation state of the Ru species in α-MoC/N C/RuNSA is less than +3, indicating the possible existence of metallic Ru in the sample. The Ru Kedge energies can be correlated to the charge states (δ) of Ru. Based on standard samples (i.e., Ru foil, RuCl3, and RuO2), the calculated δ values of Ru in α-MoC/N C/RuNSA is +2.59, which agrees well with the XPS results.[27] In addition, in the energy range of 22130–22160 eV, a relatively flat feature is observed in the α-MoC/N C/RuNSA curve, corresponding to the contributions from both nanoparticles and single atoms.[28] The local coordination environment of Ru in α-MoC/N C/RuNSA is further elucidated by performing a Fourier transform of the extended X-ray absorption fine structure data (FT-EXAFS, Figure 2E). The Ru foil reference exhibits the Ru Ru interaction at around 2.4 Å, RuCl3 displays Ru Cl scattering peaks at approximately 1.9 Å, and RuO2 shows peaks associated with Ru O bond (~1.5 Å) at the first shell and the second-shell Ru Ru bond

*Figure 2.* Chemical state and coordination structure of α-MoC/N C/RuNSA: (A) High-resolution XPS spectra of C 1s+Ru 3d for α-MoC/N C/RuNSA and α-MoC/N C; C K-edge (B) and N K-edge (C) XANES spectra for α-MoC/N C/RuNSA and α-MoC/N C; (D) Normalized Ru K-edge XANES spectra and (E) Fourier transform of Ru K-edge EXAFS of α-MoC/N C/RuNSA (red), Ru foil (black), RuCl3 (green), and RuO2 (blue). (F) EXAFS fitting curves in R space of α-MoC/N C/RuNSA; (G) Wavelet transform of the Ru K-edge for the EXAFS spectra of α-MoC/N C/RuNSA, Ru foil, RuCl3, and RuO2.

(~3.2 Å). In α-MoC/N C/RuNSA, two peaks at 1.5 Å and 2.4 Å are observed, suggesting two types of local coordination environments for Ru. Based on the obtained results, the local coordination environment of Ru in α-MoC/N C/RuNSA can be characterized by Ru N bonds with a coordination number (CN) of 4.5, as well as a Ru Ru peak at 2.4 Å with a CN of 4.7 (Figure 2F, Figure S9, and Table S1). Furthermore, these distinctive regions can be visualized in the wavelet transform (WT) of Ru K edge EXAFS oscillations of α-MoC/N C/RuNSA. They are assigned to the left Ru foil, middle RuCl3 and the right RuO2, respectively, to support the previously mentioned conclusion. Figure 2G shows two dominant peaks located at 9.5 and 7.3 Å <sup>1</sup> , representing contributions from Ru Ru and Ru N interaction, respectively.

The HzOR activity was first assessed in a conventional three-electrode setup using Hg/HgO (1.0 M KOH) as the reference electrode and a graphite rod as the counter electrode in 1.0 M KOH electrolyte with varying concentrations of hydrazine (N2H4). First, the Ru species were deposited on these MoCx samples to screen out the optimal samples. As shown in Figure S10, α-MoC/N C/RuNSA with the carbonization temperature at 800 °C displayed the best activit and was selected for subsequent experiments. The linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves (Figure S11) display that the current density increases with a higher concentration of N2H4 and stabilizes after reaching 0.3 M. So, the electrolyte containing 1.0 M KOH/0.3 M N2H4 was chosen for subsequent HzOR experiments, unless otherwise specified.

To evaluate the enhanced performance of Ru modification towards HzOR, α-MoC/N C and commercial Pt/C were also employed for comparison, as shown in Figure 3A. Evidently, α-MoC/N C/RuNSA exhibits superior HzOR catalytic activity, achieving an industry-level current density of 1.0 Acm <sup>2</sup> at an exceptionally low working potential of 0.076 V. This performance significantly outshines that of both α-MoC/N C (loading:~15 mgcm <sup>2</sup> ) and Pt/C (loading: 2 mg cm <sup>2</sup> ), exhibiting the substantial improvement brought about by the presence of Ru species on the inferior α-MoC/ 15213757, 2024, 30, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202316755 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Figure 3. The study of HzOR and HER for  $\alpha$ -MoC/N–C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub>. (A and B) Polarization curves of  $\alpha$ -MoC/N–C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub>,  $\alpha$ -MoC/N–C, and commercial Pt/C with a scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup> and corresponding Tafel plots. (C) Comparing overpotentials at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and Tafel slopes for  $\alpha$ -MoC/N–C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub> with these excellent metal-based catalysts in 1.0 M KOH. (D) LSV curves after different CV circles. (E) I-t curve at -0.07 V, inset shows the morphology of  $\alpha$ -MoC/N–C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub>. The solution is 1.0 M KOH containing 0.3 M N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub>. The HER behavior. (F) the LSV curves of  $\alpha$ -MoC/N–C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub>  $\alpha$ -MoC/N–C, and commercial Pt/C with a scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. (G) LSV curves after different CV circles. (H) I-t plot at the overpotential of 24 mV for  $\alpha$ -MoC/N–C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub> catalyst in 1.0 M KOH, inset shows the morphology.

N–C. In particular, α-MoC/N–C achieves 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> needs about 67 mV, while the α-MoC/N-C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub> shifts this potential to a more negative value of -80 mV. This attractive value is not only 62 mV smaller than that of Pt/C, but also superior compared to the recently reported top-tier materials: such as Ni-Co-P/NF (-61 mV), [6] Cu<sub>1</sub>Co<sub>2</sub>-Ni<sub>2</sub>P/ (-52 mV), [29] FeWO<sub>4</sub>-WO<sub>3</sub>/NF (-34 mV)[30] and NiRh<sub>0.016</sub>-BDC (17 mV).<sup>[31]</sup> The rapid reaction kinetics of α-MoC/N-C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub> for HzOR is further evidenced by the Tafel slope (b) plots and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy Nyquist plots. The Tafel slope value for α-MoC/  $N\!-\!C/Ru_{NSA}$  is 17.5 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, significantly lower than  $\alpha$ -MoC/N-C (181.8 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) and Pt/C (46.4 mVdec<sup>-1</sup>), as shown in Figure 3B. The corresponding charge transfer resistance  $(R_{ct})$  values, obtained from the Nyquist plot (Figure S12), are 2.8, 55.4, and 8.7  $\Omega \cdot \text{cm}^2$ , respectively. The smaller Tafel slope value and  $R_{ct}$  value for  $\alpha$ -MoC/N-C/ Ru<sub>NSA</sub> suggest more favorable kinetics and charge transfer at

the electrode/electrolyte interface. The greater exchange current density (J<sub>0</sub>, Figure S13A) and turnover frequency for  $\alpha$ -MoC/N-C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub> Figure S14A)  $(4.28*10^{-3} \,\mathrm{mA\,cm^{-2}},\ 10.48 \,\mathrm{s}\text{-}1@0.1 \,\mathrm{V})$  compared to Pt/C  $(3.60*10^{-3} \text{ mA cm}^{-2}, 2.09 \text{ s}^{-1}@0.1 \text{ V})$  demonstrate the superior intrinsic activity of α-MoC/N-C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub>. The mass activity shown in Figure S15, derived from the Ru mass loading (0.19 wt.%) in  $\alpha$ -MoC/N–C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub> and Pt (20 wt.%) in Pt/C, highlights the economic efficiency of α-MoC/N-C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub>  $(54.336 \,\mathrm{A\,mg^{-1}}@0.2\,\mathrm{V})$  and  $38.62\,\mathrm{A\,mg^{-1}}@0.1\,\mathrm{V})$  over Pt/C (1.11 A mg<sup>-1</sup>@0.2 V) and other reported materials, such as (11.82 A mg<sup>-1</sup>@0.2 V).<sup>[1]</sup> RP-CPM PtAgBiTe/C  $V),^{[32]}$ (13.5 A mg<sup>-1</sup>@0.1  $Co(OH)_2$ - $C_1Pd$  $(11.24 \text{ A mg}^{-1}@0.2 \text{ V})$ , and is comparable to RhRu<sub>0.5</sub>-alloy  $(60.4 \pm 6.2 \text{ A mg}^{-1}@0.2 \text{ V})^{[34]}$  with the ultralow loading of 1 μg cm<sup>-2</sup>. The double-layer capacitance ( $C_{dl}$ ) value of α-MoC/N-C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub> is 33.4 mF cm<sup>-2</sup> (Figure S16), nearly three times higher than α-MoC/N-C (10.5 mFcm<sup>-2</sup>), and even 15213757, 2024, 30, Downloaded from https://onlinelbitary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange,202316755 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/0/12026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelbitary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licensea

Angewandte

larger than that of Pt/C (28.5 mFcm<sup>-2</sup>), indicating a higher number of accessible active sites in α-MoC/N-C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub>. [10b] Collectively, these factors contribute to the superiorities of α-MoC/N-C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub> towards HzOR. Moreover, a comparison of the  $\eta_{100}$  value and b value of  $\alpha$ -MoC/N-C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub> with those of previously reported metal-based electrocatalysts (Figure 3C, Table S2) confirms that this sample is within the range of HzOR catalysts. The stability is comprehensively assessed using multiple approaches. First, the accelerated decay test (ADT) results indicate a slight shift of the curve towards the positive direction after 5k cycles, compared to the initial one. Additionally, the  $\eta_{10/1000}$  values increased slightly from the initial 250/406 mV to the final 256/429 mV, as shown in Figure 3D. Besides, the I-t curve in Figure 3E displays quick stabilization within the first hour, followed by minimal fluctuations during a nearly 15-hour chronoamperometry test, demonstrating robust catalytic stability. Further analysis through post-catalytic characterization reveals that the skeleton of uniform distribution of nanoparticles across the entire nanowire structure remains well-preserved. The  $\alpha$ -MoC as well as carbon components can still be clearly distinguished (Figure 3E), with almost no significant shift in the binding energies of C, N, Ru, and Mo elements in the XPS analysis (Figure S17). In summary, the results collectively suggest that the catalyst maintains its structural integrity and composition for long-term catalytic applica-

Hydrogen evolution performance was then studied in alkaline solutions. The results obtained from the LSV curves (Figure 3F) manifest that  $\alpha$ -MoC/N–C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub> exhibits significantly higher activity compared to both α-MoC/N-C and commercial Pt/C (20 wt.%). As shown in Figure S18, α-MoC/N–C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub> achieves an ultrasmall overpotential ( $\eta_{10}$ ) of 8 mV and a favorable Tafel slope value of 33.9 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> These values are better than those of the benchmark Pt/C  $(31 \text{ mV}, 38.8 \text{ mV dec}^{-1})$ and  $\alpha$ -MoC/N–C 186.3 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), and are also comparable to the performance of advanced Ru-based materials (Figure S19 and Table S3). The J<sub>0</sub> (Figure S13B) and TOF values (Figure S14B) of  $\alpha$ -MoC/N–C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub> is 2.10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and 9.95  $s^{-1}$  at -0.1 V, while the corresponding values for Pt/C are  $1.22 \text{ mA cm}^{-2}$  and  $0.35 \text{ s}^{-1}$ at -0.1 V, suggesting superior intrinsic activity of α-MoC/N–C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub> for HER. In addition, α-MoC/N-C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub> achieves 18.279 A mg<sup>-1</sup> at the overpotential of 100 mV (Figure S15B), demonstrating superiority over Pt/C  $(0.346 \,\mathrm{A\,mg^{-1}})$ , as well as RhRu<sub>0.5</sub>-alloy  $\sim 3.37 \text{ Amg}^{-1}$ , [34] RP-CPM 3.855 Amg<sup>-1</sup>, [1] and so on. The small  $R_{ct}$  (Figure S20) and large  $C_{dl}$  value (Figure S16) provide additional evidence for the enhanced activity achieved through the modification of Ru species on α-MoC/ N–C. Furthermore, the electrochemical stability of  $\alpha$ -MoC/ N-C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub> for HER is demonstrated by the almost unchanged polarization curves (Figure 3G) after 10k cycles, as well as the minimal fluctuation observed during a 20-hour electrocatalysis test. Moreover, the structural integrity of the catalyst is maintained, as evidenced by the slightly evolved nanowire structure (Insets in Figure 3H), the consistent presence of α-MoC nanoparticles and carbon matrix, as well as the preserved Ru constituents in the post-catalytic sample (Figures S17 and S21, SI).

The significance of the two ruthenium (Ru) species in enhancing the bifunctional activity was assessed and compared through synthesizing analogous structures, namely α-MoC/N-C/Ru<sub>SA</sub> (Ru loading: 0.06 wt.%) and α-MoC/N-C/ Ru<sub>NP</sub> (Ru loading:  $\sim 0.14$  wt.%). In the case of  $\alpha$ -MoC/N-C/ Ru<sub>NP</sub>, as shown in Figures S22-24, the Ru nanoparticles (NPs) were dispersed on the outside of α-MoC/N-C nanowires via colloidal-deposition method, which can effectively avoid the emergence of Ru SA sites. The size of Ru NP is about 2 nm, larger than the NC size in α-MoC/N-C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub>, hence the  $\alpha$ -MoC/N–C/Ru<sub>NP</sub> samples can serve as an approximate comparison. However, this can still reflect the influence of nanoaggregates on the catalytic activity. On the other hand, the acid etches of the Ru nanoclusters from the  $\alpha$ -MoC/N-C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub> resulted in the  $\alpha$ -MoC/N-C/Ru<sub>SA</sub>, as shown in Figures S25 and S26. The decreased ratio of N to Ru after the acid etch indicates the possible partial leaching of the unstable Ru SA species. The almost identical C<sub>dl</sub> gap of the  $\alpha$ -MoC/N–C/Ru<sub>SA</sub> to the SA sites in the  $\alpha$ -MoC/N–C/ Ru<sub>NSA</sub> (Figures S27 and S28) suggests the majority of the Ru SA entities remain intact during the acid etch, thus can be used as the basis for a fair comparison. As shown in Figure 3 and Figure S29, the modification of Ru species, whether the type of SA or NP or NSA, was found to optimize the poor  $(290 \text{ mV}@100 \text{ mA cm}^{-2})$ **HzOR**  $(-271 \text{ mV}@100 \text{ mA cm}^{-2})$  activities of  $\alpha$ -MoC/N-C. Specifically, the existence of Ru SAs sites decreased the working potential of HzOR and the overpotential of HER to 229.8 mV and 178 mV, respectively. The introduction of Ru nanoparticles further shifted these values to 138.9 mV and 80 mV. Finally, their coexistence in α-MoC/N-C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub> exhibited the best HzOR (E@100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> = -60.9 mV) and HER (η@100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>=43 mV) activities, suggesting that both types of Ru greatly ameliorate the bifunctionality. Moreover, the ECSA-normalized LSV curve based on the ratio of C<sub>dl</sub> values (Figure S30) with the smooth C<sub>dl</sub> values (0.04 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>) was obtained to compare the intrinsic improvement of different Ru species decorated with α-MoC/ N-C.[35] The similar tendency shown in Figure S29 also supports the above conclusion and further suggests the synergistic interaction of the Ru species in optimizing HzOR and HER activity. The electronic interactions between adjacent Ru atomic clusters and single atoms in α-MoC/ N-C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub>, as elucidated by XPS analysis (Figure S31), may explain its superior activity.

To elucidate the specific intrinsic active sites presented within α-MoC/N-C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub>, poisoning tests were carried out using two different substances: ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA<sup>2-</sup>) and thiocyanate (SCN<sup>-</sup>). It is noteworthy that SCN- exhibits the capability to cover both Ru nanoparticles and single atoms, while EDTA<sup>2-</sup> solely obstructs the latter interaction, as also evidenced by the poisoning behavior of  $\alpha$ -MoC/N-C/Ru<sub>SA</sub> and  $\alpha$ -MoC/N-C/Ru<sub>NP</sub> in Figures S32 and S33.<sup>[28]</sup> The effect of these poisons on the catalyst activity was evaluated. Initially, the C<sub>dl</sub> values depicted in Figure S28 decreased gradually from 33.4 mFcm<sup>-2</sup> to 27.0 mFcm<sup>-2</sup> upon the addition of EDTA<sup>2-</sup>, 15213757, 2024, 30, Downloaded from https://onlinelbitary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange,202316755 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/0/12026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelbitary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licensea

*Angewandte*

and further decreased to 13.6 mFcm <sup>2</sup> when SCN was introduced. This decline strongly indicates the deleterious influence of these poisons on the Ru sites. As shown in Figure 4B and Figure S34, the effect of EDTA2- on HER and HzOR activity was only partial, implying that the sole NC site is still inferior to the coexistence of Ru NC and SA sites. Meanwhile, SCN- exhibited a significantly more pronounced inhibitory effect, suggesting both of the Ru species are essential.

To investigate potential synergistic effects, theoretical calculation has been utilized to elucidate the structure– activity relationship. Specifically, density functional theory (DFT) calculations were applied to the HzOR and HER processes. Since the average coordination number (CN) of Ru Ru ranged between 4 and 5, and in light of the Ru NCs information from previous studies,[36] the Ru7 cluster has been constructed as a model of Ru NCs. Similarly, upon considering the CN for Ru N paths, the computational models for N C/RuNSA were developed. And the combination of the Mo-terminated α-MoC surface with carbon layer featuring Ru N4 unit and a Ru7 cluster comprising 7 atoms was found to be energetically favorable. For subsequent computations, the models α-MoC/N C/RuSA, α-MoC/N C/ RuNSA, and α-MoC/N C/RuNC were selected, as represented in Figure 4C and Figures S35–36. The hydrogen adsorption free energy (~GH\*) serves as an essential parameter, correlating the apparent kinetics behavior with the inherent catalytic activity, and the value proximate to zero signifies

*Figure 4.* Evaluation of the synergic interaction over Ru nanocluster and single atoms in the α-MoC/N C/RuNSA: (A) The polarization curves of α-MoC/N C/RuNSA, α-MoC/N C/RuNP and α-MoC/N C/RuSA for HzOR (upper) process in 1.0 M KOH+0.3 M N2H4 and HER (bottom) process in 1.0 M KOH. (B) The poison test of α-MoC/N C/RuNSA for HzOR (upper) and (bottom) HER in the original solution with 10 mM SCN or EDTA<sup>2</sup> . (C) Top-view image of the α-MoC/N C/RuNSA unit cell. Free energy of H adsorption as well as the corresponding chemisorption models (D), the Projected density of states (PDOS) for d orbits together with the d-band center (E), and the water adsorption energy (F) of α-MoC/N C/RuNSA, α-MoC/N C/RuNC, and α-MoC/N C/RuSA. (G) Reaction pathways and the free energy profiles of HzOR on the α-MoC/N C/RuNSA, α-MoC/N C/ RuNC, and α-MoC/N C/RuSA. (H) Schematic illustration of the HER and HzOR mechanism on the surface of α-MoC/N C/RuNSA bifunctional catalyst.

15213757, 2024, 30, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202316755 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

optimal catalytic performance.[37] First, the H adsorption sites on the α-MoC/N C/RuNSA has been studied. As shown in Figure S37, the Ru SA sites in the α-MoC/N C/RuNSA are detrimental to H adsorption. The poor specific activity (Figure S29B) and mass activity in Figure S38 also suggest that the Ru SA site is not a suitable active center for H adsortion. However, the adjacent Ru SA sites may weaken the H adsorption on the NC sites, approaching thermoneutrality. Hence, as delineated in Figure 4D, the H adsorption on the Ru NC sites of α-MoC/N C/RuNSA ( 0.12 eV) is more thermodynamically neutral than the feeble adsorption on Ru sites of α-MoC/N C/RuSA (1.19 eV) and the robust adsorption on the Ru sites of α-MoC/N C/RuNC ( 0.46 eV). This finding underscores the amplified HER activity arising from the amalgamation of Ru single atom and cluster sites. The coexistence of Ru single atoms and clusters results in a more pronounced charge density difference (Figure S39) compared to α-MoC/N C/RuNC and α-MoC/N C/RuSA. To discern the influence of the electronic configuration on catalytic performance, the total DOS for these models has been calculated. Figure S40 unequivocally illustrates a higher DOS proximal to the Fermi level for both the α-MoC/ N C/RuNSA and α-MoC/N C/RuNP models compared to α-MoC/N C/RuSA, suggesting that the Ru cluster predominantly augments electron conductivity. Moreover, the partial density of states (PDOS) in Figure 4E, projected on the d orbitals of Ru atoms across these models, indicates that the d-band center (ɛd) of α-MoC/N C/RuNSA ( 1.99 eV) resides in intermediately between α-MoC/N C/RuSA ( 2.94 eV) and α-MoC/N C/RuNP ( 1.86 eV). This intermediate adsorption strength accentuates its superior HER efficacy.[38] Furthermore, the more negative water adsorption energy (ΔEH2O) presented in Figure 4F and Figure S41 for α-MoC/N C/RuNSA ( 1.25 eV) relative to α-MoC/N C/RuNP ( 0.68 eV) and α-MoC/N C/RuSA ( 0.29 eV) indicates that the conjoined presence of Ru nanoclusters and single atom sites enhances water molecule adsorption, resulting in prominent HER activity in alkaline media.[2]

The HzOR processes across various models were meticulously analyzed. Inset in Figures 4G and S42–43 illustrate that N2H4 decomposition undergoes sequential dehydrogenation steps, following the pathway: N2H4!N2H4\*!N2H3\*! N2H2\*!N2H\*!N2\*!N2. The free energy profiles in Figure 4G show that the incorporation of a Ru single atom site with α-MoC/N C does not efficiently adsorb the N2H4 molecule. However, the presence of Ru cluster site in both α-MoC/N C/RuNP and α-MoC/N C/RuNSA models facilitates the exothermic adsorption of the N2H4 molecule. It's noteworthy that the transition from N2H4\* to N2H3\* represents the RDS in the α-MoC/N C/RuSA model, presenting an energy barrier of 0.94 eV. In the α-MoC/N C/RuNP model, the RDS shifts to the second dehydrogenation process from N2H3\* to N2H2\*, with a reduced energy barrier of 0.52 eV. Remarkably, in the α-MoC/N C/RuNSA model, which integrates both Ru single atom and cluster sites, the energy barrier for the initial dehydrogenation step dramatically drops to mere 0.14 eV, highlighting its exceptional HzOR activity. Overall, both the single atom and cluster sites of Ru are critical in amplifying electrocatalytic performance. The Ru cluster refines the electronic configuration, bolstering conductivity and strengthening the adsorption capacity of H2O and N2H4, crucial for the subsequent Volmer process for HER and N2H4 dehydrogenation. Additionally, the Ru single atom site repositions the d-band center away from the Fermi level, promoting H desorption on the NC site during HER. This configuration may also alleviate the interaction between \*N2H3 and the surface, aiding in surpassing the second dehydrogenation and facilitating the initial dehydrogenation steps within the HzOR cycles. Consequently, the concomitant Ru nanoclusters and single atoms sites synergistically accelerate the bifunctional reaction kinetics for both HER and HzOR in α-MoC/N-doped carbon, enabling the coupling and decoupling of hydrazine oxidation with hydrogen evolution (Figures 4H). Besides, the α-MoC in the α-MoC/N C/RuNSA can facilitate charge transfer from the Ru species, enhance conductivity, and downshift the d-band center (ɛd), tailoring the adsorption/desorption of intermediates (Figures S44–46). Experimentally, the lower activity of N C/RuNSA nanorod arrays on CEP without α-MoC compared to α-MoC/N C/RuNSA underscores the beneficial role of α-MoC nanoparticles in optimizing the catalytic properties (Figures S47–51). The doped N in the carbon plays a crucial role in providing anchoring sites,[39] while the enhanced surface mobility of the metal atoms on carbon may lead to rapid agglomeration into clusters,[40] disrupting the synergism of Ru SA and NC in the α-MoC/N C/RuNSA (Figure S52–55). Last, the nanowires array is beneficial for improving mass and electron transfer, providing large electrochemical surface area, and excellent operational durability, accelerating the gas release, which is esstial for enhancing apparent acticity.[41]

The exceptional performance exhibited by α-MoC/N C/ RuNSA in both the HzOR and HER based on experimental and theoretical results designates it as a universally effective bifunctional electrocatalyst, proficiently driving the low-put hydrogen production through the coupled HzOR in OHzS cell or the input-free hydrogen production based on the decoupled HzOR in the Zn Hz battery configuration. As illustrated in Figure 5A, in a single-chamber, membrane-less electrolyzer, the LSV curve of α-MoC/N C/RuNSA couples exhibits a pronounced increase compared to α-MoC/N C couples and commercial Pt/C couples. To achieve 10 and 200 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , the α-MoC/N C catalyst necessitates applied voltages of 57 and 463 mV, while the commercially employed Pt/C catalyst requires 19 and 230 mV, respectively. Remarkably, α-MoC/N C/RuNSA outperforms both, requiring merely 6 and 107 mV for the same current densities. These values are significantly better compared to recently reported data by other Ru-based catalysts, such as the 15.4 mV@10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> achieved by CC@WS2/Ru,[42] 23 mV@10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> observed for RP-CPM,[1] 140 mV@200 mAcm <sup>2</sup> achieved by Ru Cu2O/CF.[43] Furthermore, a homemade anion exchange membrane (AEM) electrolyzer was assembled for high current H2 evolution. This assembly uses 1.0 M KOH as the catholyte and 1.0 M KOH with 0.3 M hydrazine as the anolyte. An anion exchange membrane is used as the solid electrolyte to avoid the influence of HzOR on the performance of HER, due to 15213757, 2024, 30, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202316755 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Figure 5. Self-driven  $H_2$  evolution with  $\alpha$ -MoC/N-C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub> as the sole electrocatalyst in the whole demonstration system. (A) Evaluation of the overall hydrazine splitting performance of  $\alpha$ -MoC/N-C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub> |  $\alpha$ -MoC/N-C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub>,  $\alpha$ -MoC/N-C|  $\alpha$ -MoC/N-C, and Pt/C| Pt/C couples: (B) The overall hydrazine splitting of  $\alpha$ -MoC/N-C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub> |  $\alpha$ -MoC/N-C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub> couples in simulated alkaline sewage with different  $N_2H_4$  concentration. (C) Photo of the electrolyzer driven by a waste battery in alkaline  $N_2H_4$  sewage, inset shows the yielded  $H_2$ . (D) Schematic illustration of the Zn-Hz battery-derived OHzS system. (E) Charge and discharge polarization curves. (F) Galvanostatic discharge-charge cycling curves at 5 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. (G) Photo of the Zn-Hz battery-derived OHzS system with the  $N_2H_4$  sewage as feed.

the overlapping reduction potential (Figure S56) of both species. The plot shown in Figure S57 demonstrates a significant increase in current density, reaching 2 A cm $^{-2}$  at just 246 mV, enabling sustained long-term electrolysis under these conditions. This result suggests that  $\alpha\text{-MoC/N-C/}$   $Ru_{NSA}$  is an excellent candidate for ampere-level  $H_2$  evolution at an extremely low potential.

Hydrazine is a highly poisonous and carcinogenic substance that poses significant risks to human health. Therefore, it is essential to enforce strict regulations to restrict the levels of hydrazine in surface water to protect ecosystems. Electrolysis has emerged as a potential approach for efficiently treating toxic hydrazine waste without the need for extra oxidants or complex separation technologies. The polarization in Figure 5B demonstrates that  $\alpha$ -

MoC/N–C/Ru<sub>NSA</sub> can effectively catalyze the oxidation of  $N_2H_4$  at different concentrations in simulated alkaline  $N_2H_4$  sewage. Considering that China produces 10,000 tons of waste batteries annually, with a significant portion being carelessly discarded either at home or as municipal waste, it is crucial to capitalize on the feasible utilization of waste batteries. [44] To leverage the abundance of waste energy, a disposable AAA battery with an open circuit potential of 1.097 V (Figure S58) was employed to power the OHzS unit contained the simulated  $N_2H_4$  sewage. As shown in the photograph (Figure 5C),  $H_2$  gas bubbles assemble at the cathode, while  $N_2$  gas bubbles form at the anode in this OHzS setup, which results in a visible  $H_2$  production rate of 0.9 ml h<sup>-1</sup>, as observed in the Inset of Figure 5C. This process revamps double waste, including waste batteries and the

15213757, 2024, 3.0, Dowloaded from https://onlinelbrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/age,202316755 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/0/1/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. License

15213757, 2024, 30, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202316755 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

# *Forschungsartikel*

N2H4 sewage, by transforming them into high-value hydrogen energy, exemplifying the possibility of converting waste into equitable resources.

Next, a Zn Hz battery was assembled. The cathode consisted of α-MoC/N C/RuNSA, while the anode was made of Zn foil, separated by an AEM. During the discharge process, the cathode generated hydrogen through the HER, while Zn was oxidized to Zn2<sup>+</sup> with electron transfer. During the charge process, hydrazine oxidation occurs at the cathode and Zn metal was formed on the anode (Illustrated in Figure 5D). As displayed in Figure S59, the open circuit voltage of the Zn Hz device remained stable at 0.402 V for over 1 hour, demonstrating its feasibility. The rate performance test conducted at various current densities ranging from 0.4 to 40 mAcm <sup>2</sup> (Figure S60) showed that the Zn Hz battery reliably discharged even at high current densities. Additionally, the battery exhibited almost 100% recovery of specific capacity when the current density reduced back to 0.4 mAcm <sup>2</sup> after the high-rate cycling test. Furthermore, the charge/discharge tests at the constant current (Figure S61) revealed that the discharge voltage gradually decreased, and the charge voltage augmented as the current increased, confirming the feasibility of the rechargeable Zn Hz battery. Specifically, at a current density of 0.4 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , the Zn Hz battery exhibited a discharge voltage of 0.395 V and a charge voltage of 0.406 V, indicating the potential for achieving an energy efficiency (EE) exceeding 96%. The nearly 100% energy efficiency is attributed to the heat released from the hydrazine splitting reaction (ΔG= 111.54 kJmol <sup>1</sup> ), which can be converted into a theoretical maximum electrical energy of 0.578 V and reused in a closed system.[7] Figure 5E also shows the achievement of the discharge and charge polarization curves, further confirming its practical feasibility. To determine the specific reactions that occur during the discharge/charge process, identification of gas products is necessary. Figure S62 revealed a significant presence of H2 after discharging for 2 hours at a current density of 5 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . Upon charging, there was a notable accumulation of N2, further confirming the occurrence of HzOR during the charging process. The device efficiently generated H2 through temporal separation. The cyclic stability of the Zn Hz battery was evaluated and found to be excellent under various conditions exceed 100 hours (108 h or 324 cycles at 5 mAcm <sup>2</sup> and 170 h at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> (Figure S63)) with minimal voltage fluctuations, as revealed in Figure 5F. These performance metrics are impressive compared to recently reported materials, such as 3D Mo2C/ Ni@C/CS (EE 96.00%, Edisc*<*0.1 V at 20 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , and ~80 hours cycles under 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ),[7] NiCoP/NF(EE 95% at 0.4 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , Edisc*<*0.05 V at 20 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , and 80 hours for cycles at 5 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ),[8] the P/Fe NiSe2 (97.0% EE at 0.4 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , ~0.1 V Edisc at 20 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , and 100 hours cycles at 5 mAcm <sup>2</sup> ).[45] Further, the Zn Hz battery can be effortlessly powered by a commercial solar cell under simulated solar light (Figure S64), which displays obvious N2 generation and the collection of almost 4 ml of gas during a charging process of 0.5 hours (Figure S65). This process demonstrates the feasibility of utilizing sunlight during

daylight to charge the Zn Hz battery, which can then be used as a power source for other applications when there is a lack of sunlight, such as driving the OHzS system. Drawing inspiration from this, an integrated H2 production system that combined the Zn Hz battery with an OHzS unit was demonstrated, which uses hydrazine sewage as the sole liquid fuel (Figure 5G). As shown in the enlarged electrodes, vigorous gas bubbles can be observed on three parts of the system, including the anode and cathode within the cell as well as the cathode of the battery. This allows for multi-H2 generation via a self-power system, further showcasing the system's potential for converting toxic waste into high-value hydrogen gas. Hence, the excellent bifunctional activity of α-MoC/N C/RuNSA towards HzOR and HER endows it with the great responsibility of achieving the upgrade from waste to wealth, utilizing solar energy as the only input energy.

#### *Conclusion*

In summary, we have successfully synthesized a bifunctional material by electrochemically depositing Ru species into cubic α-MoC nanoparticles decorated N-doped carbon (α-MoC/N C) nanowire arrays in the alkaline solution containing RuCl3, which is termed as α-MoC/N C/RuNSA. DFT results indicates that the appropriate microenvironments created by the coexistence of Ru SAs and NCs sites are pivotal for collectively promoting the reaction kinetics of α-MoC/N C towards both hydrazine oxidation reaction and hydrogen evolution reaction. Specifically, Ru NCs sites enhance the adsorption of H2O and N2H4 molecules, while the Ru SA sites proficiently balance the ad/desorption energies of hydrogen species on the NC sites, approximating thermoneutrality ( 0.12 eV), thereby underpinning the alkaline HER process. Besides, the Ru SAs sites transition the RDS from N2H3\* to N2H2\* transition on the α-MoC/ N C/RuNP model to the initial dehydrogenation step (N2H4\* to N2H3\*) with the decreased energy barrier of 0.14 eV during N2H4 dehydrogenation. Therefore, the synthesized α-MoC/N C/RuNSA material shows pronounced prowess in facilitating the alkaline HzOR and HER processes, requiring minimal potential of 80 mV and 9 mV, respectively, to achieve 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> . Furthermore, it achieves a robust ampere-level current density of 1000 mAcm <sup>2</sup> at a modest potential of 77 mV for HzOR and 150 mV towards HER, significantly outperforming the modest potential Pt/C catalyst. Utilizing the α-MoC/N C/RuNSA as both the anode and cathode catalysts in the OHzS configuration, it only requires a small applied voltage of 64 mV at 10 mAcm <sup>2</sup> , even excels by achieving substantial current densities of 2 Acm <sup>2</sup> in AEM electrolyzes at just 246 mV, also can be efficiently driven by a waste AAA battery for yielding H2 at a rate of 0.9 mlh <sup>1</sup> . Furthermore, the homemade Zn Hz battery, assembled with the α-MoC/N C/RuNSA cathode and Zn foil anode, can output the voltage of 0.395 V along with the concurrent hydrogen evolution. Importantly, the integration of Zn Hz battery with OHzS system enables simultaneous H2 evolution in simulated hydrazine sewage, marking a significant stride toward waste-to-resource innovation. Over-

15213757, 2024, 30, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ange.202316755 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

all, the amalgamation of multi-atom aggregates into singleatom frameworks presents a promising avenue for harnessing collective advantages and achieving synergistic improvements in catalysts across diverse catalytic activities. The development of OHzS and Zn Hz systems augments the horizons of energy storage and conversion strategies.

### *Supporting Information*

The authors have cited additional references within the Supporting Information.[46–61]

#### *Acknowledgements*

This work was supported by the China Postdoctoral Science Foundation (No. 2022M713019, No. 2021M703066), the Science and Technology Foundation of Wenzhou City (G2023008), National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 22205167, No. 21671152, No. 22325101). We acknowledge the support of photoemission end stations on beamline BL11U at the national synchrotron radiation laboratory (NSRL) in Hefei, the BL14W1 station in the Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility (SSRF), 1W1B station in the Beijing Synchrotron Radiation Facility (BSRF) for help with characterizations.

#### *Conflict of Interest*

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### *Data Availability Statement*

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

**Keywords:** Ru single atoms **·** Ru nanoclusters **·** Hydrogen Evolution Reaction **·** Hydrazine Oxidation Reaction **·** Bifunctionality

- [1] Y. Li, J. Zhang, Y. Liu, Q. Qian, Z. Li, Y. Zhu, G. Zhang, *Sci. Adv.* **2020**, *6*, eabb4197.
- [2] Y. Liu, J. Zhang, Y. Li, Q. Qian, Z. Li, Y. Zhu, G. Zhang, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 1853.
- [3] C. Tang, R. Zhang, W. Lu, Z. Wang, D. Liu, S. Hao, G. Du, A. M. Asiri, X. Sun, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, [842–846.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201608899)
- [4] a) A. U. Nwankwoala, N. O. Egiebor, K. Nyavor, *[Biodegrada](https://doi.org/10.1023/A:1011946114017)tion* **2001**, *12*, [1–10;](https://doi.org/10.1023/A:1011946114017) b) Y. Zhang, S. Xiao, J. Xie, Z. Yang, P. Pang, Y. Gao, *Sens. [Actuators](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.snb.2014.07.078) B* **2014**, *204*, 102–108; c) W. Choi, H. Won, C. Jung, S. Park, S. Kim, I. Yoon, J. Moon, J. Choi, B. An, M. Choi, *Korea Atom Energy Res Inst.* **2016**, *559*.
- [5] Y. Li, W. Wang, M. Cheng, Q. Qian, Y. Zhu, G. Zhang, *[Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2CY00055E) Sci. Technol.* **2022**, *12*, [4339–4349.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D2CY00055E)
- [6] L. Zhu, J. Huang, G. Meng, T. Wu, C. Chen, H. Tian, Y. Chen, F. Kong, Z. Chang, X. Cui, J. Shi, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 1997.

- [7] Y. Feng, Q. Shi, J. Lin, E. Chai, X. Zhang, Z. Liu, L. Jiao, Y. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2207747.
- [8] H.-Y. Wang, L. Wang, J.-T. Ren, W. Tian, M. Sun, Y. Feng, Z.-Y. Yuan, *ACS Nano* **2023**, *17*, [10965–10975](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.3c03095).
- [9] J. Wang, X. Guan, H. Li, S. Zeng, R. Li, Q. Yao, H. Chen, Y. Zheng, K. Qu, *Nano [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2022.107467)* **2022**, *100*, 107467.
- [10] a) J. Mahmood, F. Li, S.-M. Jung, M. S. Okyay, I. Ahmad, S.-J. Kim, N. Park, H. Y. Jeong, J.-B. Baek, *Nat. [Nanotechnol.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nnano.2016.304)* **2017**, *12*, [441–446;](https://doi.org/10.1038/nnano.2016.304) b) Y.-L. Wu, X. Li, Y.-S. Wei, Z. Fu, W. Wei, X.- T. Wu, Q.-L. Zhu, Q. Xu, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2006965.
- [11] Y. Hu, T. Chao, Y. Li, P. Liu, T. Zhao, G. Yu, C. Chen, X. Liang, H. Jin, S. Niu, W. Chen, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202308800.
- [12] a) Q. He, D. Tian, H. Jiang, D. Cao, S. Wei, D. Liu, P. Song, Y. Lin, L. Song, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 1906972; b) Q. Yang, B. Zhu, F. Wang, C. Zhang, J. Cai, P. Jin, L. Feng, *[Nano](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-022-4148-2) Res.* **2022**, *15*, [5134–5142](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-022-4148-2).
- [13] a) Y. Liu, C. Li, C. Tan, Z. Pei, T. Yang, S. Zhang, Q. Huang, Y. Wang, Z. Zhou, X. Liao, J. Dong, H. Tan, W. Yan, H. Yin, Z.-Q. Liu, J. Huang, S. Zhao, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 2475; b) Y. Zhou, F. Wei, H. Qi, Y. Chai, L. Cao, J. Lin, Q. Wan, X. Liu, Y. Xing, S. Lin, A. Wang, X. Wang, T. Zhang, *Nat. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-022-00885-1)* **2022**, *5*, [1145–1156;](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-022-00885-1) c) C. H. Zhang, J. W. Sha, H. L. Fei, M. J. Liu, S. Yazdi, J. B. Zhang, Q. F. Zhong, X. L. Zou, N. Q. Zhao, H. S. Yu, Z. Jiang, E. Ringe, B. I. Yakobson, J. C. Dong, D. L. Chen, J. M. Tour, *ACS Nano* **2017**, *11*, [6930–6941](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.7b02148); d) X. Zheng, B. Li, Q. Wang, D. Wang, Y. Li, *[Nano](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-022-4429-9) Res.* **2022**, *15*, [7806–7839](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-022-4429-9); e) S. Guan, Z. Yuan, Z. Zhuang, H. Zhang, H. Wen, Y. Fan, B. Li, D. Wang, B. Liu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, e202316550.
- [14] a) K. Ding, A. Gulec, A. M. Johnson, N. M. Schweitzer, G. D. Stucky, L. D. Marks, P. C. Stair, *Science* **2015**, *350*, [189–192;](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aac6368) b) Z. Xu, Q. Zhang, Z. Huang, H. Chen, J. Zhang, W. Chen, G. Meng, D. Wang, *Sci. China Chem.* **2023**, *66*, [1241–1260;](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11426-022-1427-0) c) C. Dong, Z. Gao, Y. Li, M. Peng, M. Wang, Y. Xu, C. Li, M. Xu, Y. Deng, X. Qin, F. Huang, X. Wei, Y.-G. Wang, H. Liu, W. Zhou, D. Ma, *Nat. Catal.* **2022**, *5*, [485–493](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41929-022-00769-4).
- [15] a) R. Chen, S. Chen, L. Wang, D. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, 2304713; b) L. Kuai, Z. Chen, S. Liu, E. Kan, N. Yu, Y. Ren, C. Fang, X. Li, Y. Li, B. Geng, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 48; c) Q. He, Y. Zhou, H. Shou, X. Wang, P. Zhang, W. Xu, S. Qiao, C. Wu, H. Liu, D. Liu, S. Chen, R. Long, Z. Qi, X. Wu, L. Song, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2110604.
- [16] a) X. Liang, N. Fu, S. Yao, Z. Li, Y. Li, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c12642) Soc.* **2022**, *144*, [18155–18174](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c12642); b) W. Ren, X. Tan, C. Jia, A. Krammer, Q. Sun, J. Qu, S. C. Smith, A. Schueler, X. Hu, C. Zhao, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202203335; c) P. Su, W. Pei, X. Wang, Y. Ma, Q. Jiang, J. Liang, S. Zhou, J. Zhao, J. Liu, G. Q. Lu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, [16044–16050;](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202103557) d) Y. Wang, X. Zheng, D. Wang, *Nano Res.* **2022**, *15*, [1730–](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-021-3794-0) [1752](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-021-3794-0).
- [17] a) X. Guan, Q. Wu, H. Li, S. Zeng, Q. Yao, R. Li, H. Chen, Y. Zheng, K. Qu, *Appl. Catal. B* **2023**, *323*, [122145;](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2022.122145) b) K. Jiang, S. Siahrostami, A. J. Akey, Y. Li, Z. Lu, J. Lattimer, Y. Hu, C. Stokes, M. Gangishetty, G. Chen, Y. Zhou, W. Hill, W.-B. Cai, D. Bell, K. Chan, J. K. Nørskov, Y. Cui, H. Wang, *[Chem](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chempr.2017.09.014)* **2017**, *3*, [950–960;](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chempr.2017.09.014) c) L. Fan, P. F. Liu, X. Yan, L. Gu, Z. Z. Yang, H. G. Yang, S. Qiu, X. Yao, *Nat. Commun.* **2016**, *7*, 10667.
- [18] X. Zhang, F. Zhou, W. Pan, Y. Liang, R. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2018**, *28*, 1804600.
- [19] M. Chen, D. Yang, S. Wu, J. Zhou, D. Zhou, C. Liu, *[Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/chem.202100646) Eur. J.* **2021**, *27*, [9866–9875.](https://doi.org/10.1002/chem.202100646)
- [20] a) L. Lin, W. Zhou, R. Gao, S. Yao, X. Zhang, W. Xu, S. Zheng, Z. Jiang, Q. Yu, Y.-W. Li, C. Shi, X.-D. Wen, D. Ma, *[Nature](https://doi.org/10.1038/nature21672)* **2017**, *544*, 80–83; b) S. Yao, X. Zhang, W. Zhou, R. Gao, W. Xu, Y. Ye, L. Lin, X. Wen, P. Liu, B. Chen, E.

- Crumlin, J. Guo, Z. Zuo, W. Li, J. Xie, L. Lu, C. J. Kiely, L. Gu, C. Shi, J. A. Rodriguez, D. Ma, *Science* **2017**, *357*, [389–393.](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aah4321)
- [21] X. Sun, J. Yu, S. Cao, A. Zimina, B. B. Sarma, J.-D. Grunwaldt, H. Xu, S. Li, Y. Liu, J. Sun, *J. Am. [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c08979) Soc.* **2022**, *144*, [22589–22598](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c08979).
- [22] D. J. Morgan, *Surf. Interface Anal.* **2015**, *47*, [1072–1079](https://doi.org/10.1002/sia.5852).
- [23] X. Hu, G. Luo, Q. Zhao, D. Wu, T. Yang, J. Wen, R. Wang, C. Xu, N. Hu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, [16776–16786.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c07317)
- [24] Y. Tong, P. Chen, T. Zhou, K. Xu, W. Chu, C. Wu, Y. Xie, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2017**, *56*, [7121–7125](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201702430).
- [25] a) Z. Shi, K. Nie, Z.-J. Shao, B. Gao, H. Lin, H. Zhang, B. Liu, Y. Wang, Y. Zhang, X. Sun, X.-M. Cao, P. Hu, Q. Gao, Y. Tang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2017**, *10*, [1262–1271](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7EE00388A); b) Y. Huang, Q. Gong, X. Song, K. Feng, K. Nie, F. Zhao, Y. Wang, M. Zeng, J. Zhong, Y. Li, *ACS Nano* **2016**, *10*, [11337–11343](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.6b06580).
- [26] H. Zhang, Y. Liu, T. Chen, J. Zhang, J. Zhang, X. W. Lou, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1904548.
- [27] J. Du, Y. Huang, Z. Huang, G. Wu, B. Wu, X. Han, C. Chen, X. Zheng, P. Cui, Y. Wu, J. Jiang, X. Hong, *[JACS](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacsau.2c00192) Au* **2022**, *2*, [1078–1083.](https://doi.org/10.1021/jacsau.2c00192)
- [28] B. Lu, L. Guo, F. Wu, Y. Peng, J. E. Lu, T. J. Smart, N. Wang, Y. Z. Finfrock, D. Morris, P. Zhang, N. Li, P. Gao, Y. Ping, S. Chen, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 631.
- [29] C. Feng, M. Lv, J. Shao, H. Wu, W. Zhou, S. Qi, C. Deng, X. Chai, H. Yang, Q. Hu, C. He, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, 2305598.
- [30] F. Shen, Z. Wang, Y. Wang, G. Qian, M. Pan, L. Luo, G. Chen, H. Wei, S. Yin, *Nano Res.* **2021**, *14*, [4356–4361.](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-021-3548-z)
- [31] X. Xu, H.-C. Chen, L. Li, M. Humayun, X. Zhang, H. Sun, D. P. Debecker, W. Zhang, L. Dai, C. Wang, *ACS [Nano](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.3c02749)* **2023**, *17*, [10906–10917.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.3c02749)
- [32] F. Zhao, S. Nie, L. Wu, Q. Yuan, X. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2303672.
- [33] S. Sarker, J. H. Choi, H. H. Lee, D. S. Kim, H. K. Cho, *Adv.* Sci. **2023**, *10*, 2300639.
- [34] X. Fu, D. Cheng, C. Wan, S. Kumari, H. Zhang, A. Zhang, H. Huyan, J. Zhou, H. Ren, S. Wang, Z. Zhao, X. Zhao, J. Chen, X. Pan, P. Sautet, Y. Huang, X. Duan, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2301533.
- [35] C. C. L. McCrory, S. Jung, J. C. Peters, T. F. Jaramillo, *J. [Am.](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja407115p) Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, [16977–16987](https://doi.org/10.1021/ja407115p).
- [36] a) P. Liu, Z. Huang, X. Gao, X. Hong, J. Zhu, G. Wang, Y. Wu, J. Zeng, X. Zheng, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2200057; b) J. Lin, J. Ding, H. Wang, X. Yang, X. Zheng, Z. Huang, W. Song, J. Ding, X. Han, W. Hu, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2200559.
- [37] J. Greeley, T. F. Jaramillo, J. Bonde, I. B. Chorkendorff, J. K. Norskov, *Nat. Mater.* **2006**, *5*, [909–913](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat1752).
- [38] J. Cai, Y. Song, Y. Zang, S. Niu, Y. Wu, Y. Xie, X. Zheng, Y. Liu, Y. Lin, X. Liu, G. Wang, Y. Qian, *Sci. Adv.* **2020**, *6*, eaaw8113.
- [39] Q. Hu, K. Gao, X. Wang, H. Zheng, J. Cao, L. Mi, Q. Huo, H. Yang, J. Liu, C. He, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 3958.
- [40] Y. Peng, B. Lu, S. Chen, *Adv. Mater.* **2018**, *30*, 1801995.
- [41] J. Wang, N. Zang, C. Xuan, B. Jia, W. Jin, T. Ma, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2104620.
- [42] J. Li, Y. Li, J. Wang, C. Zhang, H. Ma, C. Zhu, D. Fan, Z. Guo, M. Xu, Y. Wang, H. Ma, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2109439.
- [43] P. Shen, B. Zhou, Z. Chen, W. Xiao, Y. Fu, J. Wan, Z. Wu, L. Wang, *Appl. Catal. B* **2023**, *325*, [122305.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2022.122305)
- [44] H. Li, J. Dai, A. Wang, S. Zhao, H. Ye, J. Zhang, in *IOP Conf. Ser.: Mater. Sci. Eng., Vol. 612*, IOP Publishing **2019**, p. 052020.

- [45] H.-Y. Wang, L. Wang, J.-T. Ren, W.-W. Tian, M.-L. Sun, Z.-Y. Yuan, *Nano-Micro Lett.* **2023**, *15*, 155.
- [46] J. Li, L. Yu, W. Wang, X. He, G. Wang, R. Liu, X. Ma, G. Zhang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2022**, *10*, [9355–9362.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D1TA10677E)
- [47] S. Zhang, C. Zhang, X. Zheng, G. Su, H. Wang, M. Huang, *Appl. Catal. B* **2023**, *324*, [122207](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2022.122207).
- [48] S. Zhou, Y. Zhao, R. Shi, Y. Wang, A. Ashok, F. Héraly, T. Zhang, J. Yuan, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2204388.
- [49] Y. Zhu, J. Zhang, Q. Qian, Y. Li, Z. Li, Y. Liu, C. Xiao, G. Zhang, Y. Xie, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202113082.
- [50] F. Sun, J. Qin, Z. Wang, M. Yu, X. Wu, X. Sun, J. Qiu, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 4182.
- [51] Q. Qian, J. Zhang, J. Li, Y. Li, X. Jin, Y. Zhu, Y. Liu, Z. Li, A. El-Harairy, C. Xiao, G. Zhang, Y. Xie, *[Angew.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202014362) Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, [5984–5993](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202014362).
- [52] X. Liu, J. He, S. Zhao, Y. Liu, Z. Zhao, J. Luo, G. Hu, X. Sun, Y. Ding, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9*, 4365.
- [53] Y. Li, W. Wang, M. Cheng, Y. Feng, X. Han, Q. Qian, Y. Zhu, G. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2206351.
- [54] K. Wang, J. Zhou, M. Sun, F. Lin, B. Huang, F. Lv, L. Zeng, Q. Zhang, L. Gu, M. Luo, S. Guo, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2300980.
- [55] X. Lin, J. Liu, X. Qiu, B. Liu, X. Wang, L. Chen, Y. Qin, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202306333.
- [56] G. Li, H. Jang, S. Liu, Z. Li, M. G. Kim, Q. Qin, X. Liu, J. Cho, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 1270.
- [57] S. Zhou, H. Jang, Q. Qin, L. Hou, M. G. Kim, S. Liu, X. Liu, J. Cho, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202212196.
- [58] J. Zhang, X. Mao, S. Wang, L. Liang, M. Cao, L. Wang, G. Li, Y. Xu, X. Huang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202116867.
- [59] S. Shen, Z. Hu, H. Zhang, K. Song, Z. Wang, Z. Lin, Q. Zhang, L. Gu, W. Zhong, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202206460.
- [60] C. Cai, K. Liu, Y. Zhu, P. Li, Q. Wang, B. Liu, S. Chen, H. Li, L. Zhu, H. Li, J. Fu, Y. Chen, E. Pensa, J. Hu, Y.-R. Lu, T.-S. Chan, E. Cortés, M. Liu, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202113664.
- [61] J. Zhang, G. Chen, Q. Liu, C. Fan, D. Sun, Y. Tang, H. Sun, X. Feng, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202209486.
- [62] L. Deng, F. Hu, M. Ma, S.-C. Huang, Y. Xiong, H.-Y. Chen, L. Li, S. Peng, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, [22276–22282](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202110374).
- [63] Y. Sun, Z. Xue, Q. Liu, Y. Jia, Y. Li, K. Liu, Y. Lin, M. Liu, G. Li, C.-Y. Su, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 1369.
- [64] X. Wu, Z. Wang, D. Zhang, Y. Qin, M. Wang, Y. Han, T. Zhan, B. Yang, S. Li, J. Lai, L. Wang, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 4018.
- [65] T. Zhu, J. Huang, B. Huang, N. Zhang, S. Liu, Q. Yao, S.-C. Haw, Y.-C. Chang, C.-W. Pao, J.-M. Chen, Q. Shao, Z. Hu, Y. Ma, X. Huang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 2002860.
- [66] Z. Zhuang, Y. Wang, C.-Q. Xu, S. Liu, C. Chen, Q. Peng, Z. Zhuang, H. Xiao, Y. Pan, S. Lu, R. Yu, W.-C. Cheong, X. Cao, K. Wu, K. Sun, Y. Wang, D. Wang, J. Li, Y. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 4875.
- [67] L.-N. Zhang, Z.-L. Lang, Y.-H. Wang, H.-Q. Tan, H.-Y. Zang, Z.-H. Kang, Y.-G. Li, *Energy [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9EE01647C) Sci.* **2019**, *12*, 2569– [2580](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9EE01647C).
- [68] Q. Yao, B. Huang, N. Zhang, M. Sun, Q. Shao, X. Huang, *Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, [13983–13988](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201908092).

Manuscript received: November 4, 2023 Accepted manuscript online: May 13, 2024 Version of record online: June 19, 2024