---
source: Liu 等 - 2024 - Self‐Limited Formation of Cobalt Nanoparticles for Spontaneous Hydrogen Production through Hydrazine.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 76.403s
generated: 2026-01-10T07:41:39.090117Z
---

# **Self-Limited Formation of Cobalt Nanoparticles for Spontaneous Hydrogen Production through Hydrazine Electrooxidation**

*Qian Liu, Xin Tan, Xiaobin Liao, Jiabao Lv, Xiaotong Li, Zerui Chen, Yue Yang, Angjian Wu, Yan Zhao,\* and Hao Bin Wu\**

**Hydrogen (H2) has emerged as a highly promising energy carrier owing to its remarkable energy density and carbon emission-free properties. However, the widespread application of H2 fuel has been limited by the difficulty of storage. In this work, spontaneous electrochemical hydrogen production is demonstrated using hydrazine (N2H4) as a liquid hydrogen storage medium and enabled by a highly active Co catalyst for hydrazine electrooxidation reaction (HzOR). The HzOR electrocatalyst is developed by a self-limited growth of Co nanoparticles from a Co-based zeolitic imidazolate framework (ZIF), exhibiting abundant defective surface atoms as active sites for HzOR. Notably, these self-limited Co nanoparticles exhibit remarkable HzOR activity with a negative working potential of −0.1 V (at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) in 0.1 m N2H4/1 m KOH electrolyte. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations are employed to validate the superior performance of low-coordinated Co active sites in facilitating HzOR. By taking advantage of the potential difference between HzOR and the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER), a novel HzOR||HER electrochemical system is developed to spontaneously produce H2 without external energy input. Overall, the work offers valuable guidance for developing active HzOR catalyst. The novel HzOR||HER electrochemical system represents a promising and innovative solution for energy-efficient hydrogen production.**

## **1. Introduction**

The upsurge in energy consumption and the deteriorating global climate stimulates the development of clean and sustainable energy sources. Hydrogen (H2), featuring the highest energy density and zero carbon emission, has been considered as a promising energy carrier to substitute fossil fuels.[\[1\]](#page-9-0) However, the high cost of compressed hydrogen storage has hindered its widespread adoption. As a result, alternative hydrogen storage approaches have been explored.[\[2\]](#page-9-0) Hydrous hydrazine (N2H4·H2O), a liquid hydrogen storage medium, offers an alternative that can release hydrogen without producing carbon emission.[\[3\]](#page-9-0) Selective decomposition of N2H4 to hydrogen and nitrogen is a conventional approach to generate hydrogen from hydrazine.[\[4\]](#page-9-0) However, this approach suffers from the incomplete decomposition of N2H4 into ammonia that reduces the efficiency of N2H4-to-H2 conversion.[\[5\]](#page-9-0)

Q. Liu, X. Li, Z. Chen, Y. Yang, H. B. Wu Institute for Composites Science Innovation (InCSI), State Key Laboratory of Silicon and Advanced Semiconductor Materials School of Materials Science and Engineering Zhejiang University Hangzhou 310027, P. R. China

X. Tan Engineering Research Center of Advanced Rare Earth Materials Department of Chemistry Tsinghua University Beijing 100084, P. R. China X. Liao, Y. Zhao College of Materials Science and Engineering

Sichuan University Chengdu 610065, P. R. China E-mail: [yanzhao@scu.edu.cn](mailto:yanzhao@scu.edu.cn)

E-mail: [hbwu@zju.edu.cn](mailto:hbwu@zju.edu.cn)

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202311741>

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202311741**

J. Lv, A. Wu State Key Laboratory of Clean Energy Utilization Zhejiang University Hangzhou 310027, P. R. China A. Wu Laboratory of Clean Energy and Carbon Neutrality of Zhejiang Province Jiaxing Research Institute Zhejiang University Jiaxing 314031, P. R. China A. Wu Baima Lake Laboratory Hangzhou 310053, P. R. China Y. Zhao

The Institute of Technological Sciences

Wuhan, Hubei 430072, P. R. China

Wuhan University

Different to the direct hydrazine decomposition, hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) assisted by hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR) has been extensively discussed for hydrogen production.[\[6,7\]](#page-9-0) Compared with electrochemical water splitting that involves the reluctant oxygen evolution reaction (OER), the use of HzOR as an alternative anodic reaction substantially reduce the energy input for hydrogen production.

Theoretical analysis indicates that the HzOR can spontaneously drive the HER judged by their standard electrode potential (−0.33 V vs RHE for HzOR and 0 V vs RHE for HER). This inspires us to develop a short-circuit galvanic cell based on HzOR and HER that automatically produce H2 and N2 at cathode and anode, respectively. However, recently reported HzOR catalysts possess an onset potential ≈−0.05 V versus RHE,[\[6,8–10\]](#page-9-0) which is practically insufficient to drive the HER. Thus, active HzOR electrocatalysts with low overpotential are highly desired to unleash the potential of hydrazine as a hydrogen source. Previous works have shown that 3*d* transition metals such as Ni and Co are active for HzOR over noble metals.[\[11,12\]](#page-9-0) The activity of Ni/Co catalysts for HzOR can be further optimized by doping,[\[6\]](#page-9-0) forming alloys,[\[13\]](#page-9-0) nanostructured morphology,[\[14\]](#page-9-0) hybrid structures,[\[15\]](#page-9-0) high-index facets,[\[16\]](#page-9-0) and defect engineering.[\[11\]](#page-9-0) Our previous work demonstrated that defected metallic cobalt with low coordination numbers (CNs) could exhibit enhanced activity toward HzOR and showed an exceptionally low overpotential (180 mV),[\[11\]](#page-9-0) among the most active HzOR catalysts reported so far.

Herein, we reported a highly active Co-based electrocatalyst for HzOR prepared from a Co-based zeolitic imidazolate framework (ZIF-67) for spontaneous hydrogen generation. The Co nodes in ZIF-67 undergo reduction and self-limited growth during electrolysis, transforming into nanoparticles enveloped by residual ligands. These self-limited Co nanoparticles with rich undercoordinated surface sites are highly active for HzOR,[\[11,17,18\]](#page-9-0) which deliver a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at a low overpotential of 230 mV and a small Tafel slope of 3.91 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1. Benefited from the remarkable HzOR activity, we successfully demonstrate a novel hydrogen production system based on a HzOR||HER galvanic cell. The prototype cell operates at a short-circuit current density of ≈40 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (equivalent to a hydrogen production rate of 374 mmol cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> h<sup>−</sup>1) for 20 hours without additional energy input. Our study not only presents a strategy for in situ generation of active sites via self-limited nanoparticles growth, but also demonstrates the feasibility of a novel HzOR||HER electrochemical system for hydrogen generation without the need for external energy input.

# **2. Results and Discussion**

#### **2.1. Materials Synthesis and Characterization**

Needle-like arrays of Co(OH)F on Cu foam were prepared via a hydrothermal reaction (see Methods in Supporting Information for details). These arrays are served as self templates for the growth of hexagonal ZIF-67 sheets (**Figure 1**[a–d\)](#page-2-0). The X-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern of the resulting sample (denoted as ZIF/CF) (Figure S1a, Supporting Information) closely matched the simulated patterns of ZIF-67 and the standard pattern of Co(OH)F (PDF# 50–0827). This observation suggests that the surface of the Co(OH)F arrays would be transformed into ZIF-67 sheets while the interior might be unaltered.

Upon plasma treatment, the needle-like structure of the arrays remained intact, whereas the hexagonal sheets on the surface transformed into broken flakes (denoted as p-ZIF/CF) (Figure [1e\)](#page-2-0). The XRD pattern of p-ZIF/CF (Figure S1a, Supporting Information) displays the signals of ZIF-67 and Co(OH)F. Transmission electron microscope (TEM) image of p-ZIF (Figure [1f\)](#page-2-0) reveals a loosely packed needle-like structure, while the corresponding selected area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern indicates a low crystallinity feature. Furthermore, energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscope (EDS) mapping of the p-ZIF (Figure [1h\)](#page-2-0) shows the uniform distribution of Co, C, and N elements in the p-ZIF arrays. The magnified TEM image of p-ZIF (Figure [1i\)](#page-2-0) shows the presence of nanopores in the arrays that might be generated by partial decomposition during the plasma treatment, while the high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) (Figure [1j\)](#page-2-0) reveals the blurred crystalline fringes that is in line with its low crystallinity.

These results suggest that the plasma-treated p-ZIF/CF retains the phases of both Co(OH)F and ZIF-67 with decreased crystallinity, which would be subjected to phase transformation during electrocatalysis.[\[19–21\]](#page-9-0) Compared with conventional thermal pyrolysis to transform ZIF into catalytic active species, the lowtemperature plasma treatment would be more effective to create defective structure with abundant catalytic active sites.[\[11,22,23\]](#page-9-0) To gain further insights, we characterized the structure of the p-ZIF/CF catalyst after HzOR processes. The XRD pattern of p-ZIF after electrolysis (Figure S1b, Supporting Information) matches that of metallic Co (PDF# 15–0806), while the peaks related to ZIF-67 and Co(OH)F disappear. This finding confirms that p-ZIF/CF serves as the precursor for the formation of self-limited Co nanoparticles, which emerge during electrocatalysis. Plasma treatment might activate the precursor and accelerate the transformation process by partially damaging the orderly crystal structure of ZIF/CF.

We conducted additional analysis using field-emission scanning electron microscope (FESEM) and TEM for the p-ZIF after electrolysis (Figure S2a,b, Supporting Information). The results show that the needle-like morphology of the catalyst has been well-preserved. Moreover, the diffraction rings of Co appear in the SAED pattern (Figure S2c, Supporting Information), which is consistent with the XRD analysis. EDS mapping (Figure S2d, Supporting Information) confirms the uniform distribution of Co, C, and N within a single nanoneedle, while the absence of F indicates the complete decomposition of Co(OH)F. The HRTEM images (Figure S2e,f, Supporting Information) reveal the presence of both crystalline and amorphous areas in the needle-like structure. The crystalline regions correspond to Co nanoparticles that might be reconstructed from Co(OH)F and ZIF-67, while these amorphous regions might be attributed to the partially decomposed ZIF-67 with fragmented structure.

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analysis was performed to investigate the changes in chemical environment for ZIF-67/CF, p-ZIF/CF, and p-ZIF/CF after HzOR (Figure S3, Supporting Information). Compared to ZIF-67/CF, p-ZIF/CF exhibits small peaks corresponding to Co0 (778.0 eV), CC <sup>=</sup> N/C <sup>=</sup> <sup>O</sup> (288.4 eV), OC <sup>=</sup> <sup>O</sup> (531.4 eV), and a prominent peak attributed to pyridine N (397.5 eV).[\[24–26\]](#page-9-0) The appearance of pyridine N is

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** Morphological and structural characterizations of ZIF/CF and p-ZIF/CF. a) Schematic illustration of the synthetic procedure of ZIF/CF and p-ZIF/CF. b) Field Emission Scanning Electron Microscopy (FESEM) image of ZIF. c,d) Transmission electron microscope (TEM) images of ZIF e) FESEM image of p-ZIF/CF. f) TEM image of p-ZIF. g) Selected area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern of p-ZIF. h) energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscope (EDS) mapping of p-ZIF. i,j) High-resolution TEM (HRTEM) images of p-ZIF.

www.small-journal.com

16136829, 2024, 32, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/sml1.20211741 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07]01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) are governed to the applicable Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) are govern

likely a result of the disruption of the Co–N bond in ZIF-67, leading to the formation of fragmented ZIF structure. The presence of Co<sup>0</sup> signal suggests the in situ generated metallic Co clusters during plasma treatment. Meanwhile, the Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) spectra (Figure S4, Supporting Information) indicate that ZIF-67 and p-ZIF have nearly the same vibrational bands, <sup>[27,28]</sup> suggesting the presence of the imidazole ligands of ZIF-67 after plasma treatment. Previous experimental findings have shown that nanoparticles enveloped by organic groups experience limited growth, which helps to preserve surface atoms with low CNs, such as kink/terrace/corner atoms. <sup>[17]</sup> These under-coordinated sites could potentially serve as the catalytic active sites. <sup>[11,17,18]</sup>

After HzOR electrocatalysis, a new peak emerged in the XPS spectra of the catalyst corresponding to O1s at 529 eV ( $O^{2-}_{bulk}$ ), indicating the partial oxidation of Co atoms during HzOR. All other peaks observed are in line with those of p-ZIF/CF. The presence of Co<sup>0</sup> in the catalyst after electrocatalysis is consistent with the XRD and TEM analysis. In addition, the FTIR spectrum of p-ZIF after HzOR still exhibits the vibrational bands related to Co–N (428 cm<sup>-1</sup>), the imidazole ring (600–1500 cm<sup>-1</sup>), and C=N (1631 cm<sup>-1</sup>). These findings, combined with the results of XRD and TEM, suggest that the ZIF-67/Co(OH)F components gradually transform into Co nanoparticles encapsulated by organic ligands during HzOR.<sup>[29]</sup>

To gain insights into the atomic structures of the investigated catalyst, X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) was conducted. Figure 2a shows that p-ZIF and ZIF-67 have similar valence states resembling CoO, indicating that most Co species in p-ZIF exist as Co<sup>2+</sup>. The reduced valence state of Co species in p-ZIF after electrolysis verifies the emergence of Co<sup>0</sup> nanoparticles, aligning well with the XPS results.[30,31] The coordination environment of Co is further elucidated through extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) (Figure 2b). Both ZIF-67 and p-ZIF samples exhibit the same prominent peak at 1.53 Å, corresponding to the Co-N scattering interaction within the first shell coordination.<sup>[32]</sup> Moreover, the reduced R-space amplitude in p-ZIF indicates a lower coordination number (CN) and increased disorder, which suggests a defect-rich structure.[33] The EXAFS spectrum of post-electrolyzed p-ZIF exhibits the signals of Co-Co and Co-N, confirming the presence of both metallic and coordinated Co. Furthermore, the wavelet transform (WT) plots in Figure 2c display the distribution of Co-N and Co-Co bonds in the samples. Clearly, the WT contour of p-ZIF after electrolysis reveals the dominance of typical Co-N and Co-Co bonds within the structure. The Co-N bonds can be attributed to the residual fragmented ZIF structure and ligands adsorbed on Co nanoparticles.

The C K-edge spectra exhibit four peaks (Figure 2d): peak A at 284.6 eV originated from the C–C  $\pi^*$  (ring) transition; peak B at 286.4 eV corresponding to C–O–C or C–N–C transitions; peak C at 288.5 eV, derived from C = O  $\pi^*$  transitions; and peak D at 291.0 eV assigned to C–C  $\sigma^*$  (ring) transitions. [31,32] The C–C ring and C–N–C excitations are attributed to the imidazole ring of organic ligands. The presence of C=O peaks suggests partial oxidation during synthesis and electrolysis. The similarity of these peaks in the catalysts implies the persistence of ZIF fragments during HzOR. In the N K-edge spectra (Figure 2e), the peaks at 395.15 eV ( $\pi^*$  C=N) and 400.5 eV ( $\sigma^*$  C–N and C–N–C) originated

from the imidazole ring. [31,32] Notably, a peak corresponding to  $\pi^*$  graphitic N[31,34] (397.3 eV) emerges in p-ZIF after electrolysis, suggesting possible re-organization of ZIF fragments during electrolysis. [29]

These results highlight the occurrence of self-limited growth of Co nanoparticles derived from ZIF-67 during HzOR (Figure 2f). The presence of these ZIF fragments acts as a hindrance to the aggregation and over-growth of metallic Co,<sup>[29,31,35]</sup> resulting in small Co nanoparticles.<sup>[36,37]</sup> Specifically, under the potential during electrolysis, Co atoms might quickly agglomerate within the distorted framework to form numerous small Co nuclei and consume the available feed atoms near the nuclei for nanoparticle growth. The well-distributed Co nanoparticles within the needle-like arrays possess a large specific surface area, providing abundant catalytic active sites for HzOR. Importantly, the porous nature of hybrid Co nanoparticles and organic ligands, along with the needle-like array morphology, plays a pivotal role in facilitating the transfer of hydrazine molecules to the active sites.<sup>[38]</sup>

#### 2.2. Electrochemical Performance of p-ZIF/CF for HzOR

The performance of the catalysts for HzOR was assessed using a typical three-electrode configuration, with a Hg/HgO electrode as the reference electrode and a graphite rod as the counter electrode, in a 1.0 м KOH electrolyte containing 0.1 м N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub>. Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves (Figure 3a) were recorded to estimate the electrocatalytic activity toward HzOR, and the corresponding Tafel plots were displayed in Figure 3b. The substrate (Cu foam) exhibits negligible HzOR catalytic activity. ZIF-67/CF showed a working potential of -0.04 V (vs RHE, overpotential of 290 mV) at 10 mA  $cm^{-2}$  and a Tafel slope of 13.96 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> toward HzOR. After plasma treatment, ZIF-67/CF tuned into p-ZIF/CF, leading to a significant improvement in HzOR activity. The results show that p-ZIF/CF exhibited an overpotential of 230 mV at current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, with a low overpotential of 300 mV required to achieve a current density of  $200 \text{ mA cm}^{-2}$ . Furthermore, a small Tafel slope of 3.91 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> was obtained (Figure 3b), indicating fast HzOR kinetics with p-ZIF/CF. In comparison, Pt/C and conventional Co nanoparticles supported on Cu foam (PtC/CF and Co np/CF) displayed a relatively large overpotential (320 and 340 mV, respectively) to achieve 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> toward HzOR.

The LSV curves in electrolytes with different  $\rm N_2H_4$  concentrations were shown in Figure 3c. The p-ZIF/CF electrodes in electrolytes with higher hydrazine concentration displayed larger current densities. In addition, the comparable LSV curves in 0.4 and 0.6  $\rm M$  hydrazine demonstrate that the mass-transfer limit could be largely overcome at moderate  $\rm N_2H_4$  concentration, due to the porous structure of p-ZIF/CF.

The electrochemical active surface area (ECSA) was assessed by calculating the double layer capacitance ( $C_{\rm dl}$ ) (Figure 3d; Figure S5, Supporting Information), which is used to estimate the intrinsic catalytic activities of HzOR catalysts. The  $C_{\rm dl}$  value of p-ZIF/CF (270.05 mF cm $^{-2}$ ) is much higher than that of ZIF-67/CF (16 mF cm $^{-2}$ ), resulting from the plasma-induced porous hybrid structure and the abundant isolated Co nanoparticles. The control samples exhibit relatively small  $C_{\rm dl}$  value (PtC/CF: 96.4

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a) Normalized Co K-edge XANES spectra (inset: local enlarged spectra). b) Fourier-transform spectra from EXAFS (inset: local enlarged spectra). c) Wavelet transform plot of CoO, Co foil, ZIF-67, p-ZIF and p-ZIF after electrolysis. d) Normalized C K-edge spectra. e) Normalized N K-edge spectra. f) Schematic showing the atomic structures of ZIF-67, p-ZIF, and p-ZIF after electrolysis (purple: Co, blue: N, grey: C).

mF cm<sup>−</sup>2, Co np/CF: 4.83 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2). The ECSA-normalized polarization curves are presented in Figure S6 (Supporting Information). It is noteworthy that ZIF-67/CF and p-ZIF/CF exhibited comparable ECSA-normalized LSV curves. Moreover, ZIF-67/CF exhibited an activation process during cyclic voltammetry (CV) test (Figure S7, Supporting Information), suggesting a structural evolution of the ZIF-67/CF catalyst during the HzOR process.

Figure [3e](#page-5-0) shows the long-term stability of p-ZIF/CF at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. The electrolyte was refreshed four times during the chronopotentiometry test to replenish the

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 3.** Electrochemical performances for hydrazine oxidation reaction. a) Polarization curves with a scanning rate of 5 mV s−<sup>1</sup> in 1 M KOH with 0.1 M N2H4 (inset: local enlarged spectra). b) Corresponding Tafel plots. c) LSV curves in different concentrations of N2H4 (inset: local enlarged spectra). d) Capacitive current densities as a function of scan rate to a linear regression. e) Chronopotentiometry test for p-Co/CF in 1 M KOH with 0.1 m N2H4 at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. f) Comparison of HzOR onset potential and potential at 200 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> with other HzOR catalysts. The corresponding references of these catalysts are shown in Table S1 (Supporting Information).

consumed N2H4. After 185 h of measurement, a slight potential drop of 30 mV was observed, demonstrating the robust stability of p-ZIF/CF. Comparing p-ZIF/CF with previously reported HzOR catalysts (Figure 3f; Table S1, Supporting Information), p-ZIF/CF exhibits the lowest working potentials for 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (−0.1 V vs RHE) and 200 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (−0.03 V vs RHE) operation, and excellent cycling stability of 185 h. Notably, the onset potential of p-ZIF/CF for HzOR is notably lower than that of HER.[\[39\]](#page-9-0) This difference in potential between HzOR and HER suggests the possibility of

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 4.** DFT calculations. a) Computational model of p-ZIF (grey: C, white: H, dark blue: N, blue: Co). b) Gibbs free energy diagram of HzOR at equilibrium potential. c) Comparison of onset potential (vs RHE) between theoretical calculation and experiment measurement. d) Projected density of states (PDOS) for *d* orbitals of p-ZIF and total DOS for N2H4 molecule.

spontaneous hydrogen production without the need for external energy input.

The high HzOR activity of the p-ZIF/CF is closely related to the in situ formation of Co nanoparticles. We speculate that the surface atoms in the defective Co nanoparticles serve as the catalytic active sites for the HzOR. Specifically, the self-limited formation process plays an important role in hindering the over-growth of metallic Co.[\[29,40,41\]](#page-9-0) and preserving defective surface sites such as kink/terrace/corner atoms.[\[40–43\]](#page-9-0) These under-coordinated surface sites have been shown to exhibit high catalytic activity.[\[11\]](#page-9-0) The porous architecture further benefits the exposure of active sites to reactant during operation.

#### **2.3. Theoretical Insight**

To gain further insights into the HzOR process on self-limited Co nanoparticles, density functional theory (DFT) calculations were performed. The computational model of p-ZIF is given in **Figure 4**a, which consists of a Co cluster capped by 2 methylimidazole ligands. The configurations of HzOR intermediates on p-ZIF, Co(111), and Pt(111) are shown in Figures S9 and S10 (Supporting Information). Complete free energy diagrams of HzOR were calculated to compare the reaction activity of self-limited Co nanoparticle with Co(111) and Pt(111) (Figure 4b; Figure S8, Supporting Information). The Gibbs free energy changes of the elementary reactions are displayed in Tables S3 and S4 (Supporting Information). According to the computational results, both p-ZIF and Pt(111) were found to prefer the distal pathway (denoted as N2H2-2). Co(111) exhibited the same reaction barrier for both the alternating (denoted as N2H2-1) and distal pathways. The dehydrogenation of N2H3 \* was previously identified as the potential-determining step (PDS) for common catalysts according to experimental and theoretical studies.[\[11,44,45\]](#page-9-0) Our results are consistent with previous findings, as the PDS for p-ZIF, Co(111), and Pt(111) was found to be the dehydrogenation of N2H3 \*, with energy barriers of 0.26, 0.44 and 0.48 eV, respectively. Notably, for Co(111), the dehydrogenation of N2H3 \* and N2H2 \* exhibited the same energy barrier of 0.44 eV. The low energy barrier of PDS for p-ZIF suggests its potential as a promising catalyst for HzOR.

Figure 4c presents a comparison between the theoretical and experimental onset potentials of Co, Pt, and p-ZIF catalysts, highlighting the consistency of the results and validating the reliability of our theoretical calculations. The theoretical onset potential of p-ZIF is determined to be −0.07 V (versus RHE), which is

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 5.** Spontaneous hydrogen production by coupling hydrazine electrooxidation. a) Comparison of HzOR current density at 0 V versus RHE of reported catalysts. b) Linear sweep curves of HzOR (p-ZIF/CF) and HER (Pt/C on Ni foam, denoted as PtC/NF). c) Long-term test of spontaneous hydrogen production. d) Optical images of the homemade spontaneous hydrogen production device, the anode and cathode are connected by an ammeter. e) Schematic illustration of spontaneous hydrogen production for hydrogen fuel cell.

lower than that of Co(111) or Pt(111). The disparity in HzOR onset potentials can be attributed to the variation in energy barriers on different catalysts.

Analysis of the adsorption energies reveals that N2H3 \* is weakly adsorbed on p-ZIF (−1.79 eV, Table S5, Supporting Information) compared to that on Co(111) (−2.63 eV) and Pt(111) (−2.28 eV). The weaker bonding interaction between N2H3 \* and p-ZIF would be accounted for the facilitated dehydrogenation of N2H3 \*, which is the PDS in HzOR. Consequently, self-limited cobalt nanoparticles offer optimized interaction with N2H3 \*, resulting in a reduced reaction barrier for HzOR. Density of states (DOS) calculations were performed to elucidate the bonding

interactions between N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> and the catalysts (Figure 4d; Figure \$11, Supporting Information). The DOS results reveal that the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of N2H4, which corresponds to the non-bonding orbital, is mainly contributed to the Co-N bond. Specifically, the HOMO of N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> is predominantly composed of the  $p_z$  and  $p_x$  orbitals of nitrogen, indicating that the oxidation activity of the N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> is primarily determined by these orbitals. Furthermore, the distinctive adsorption configuration of hydrazine in a "gauche" conformation[46] leads to a distorted N–N bond, resulting in the participation of  $p_{\nu}$  in the formation of Co–N bond. Since the bonding orbitals of Co are  $d_{xy}$ ,  $d_{yz}$ , and  $d_{v^2-v^2}$  (shown in Figure S11d, Supporting Information), the interactions between the intermediate and substrate involves multiorbital p-d bonding. These results imply that the special configuration of self-limited Co nanoparticles reduces the strong adsorption of N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>3</sub>\* intermediate compared with Co(111) and Pt(111), thus favoring the HzOR.

#### 2.4. HzOR||HER Electrochemical Hydrogen Production System

The exceptional HzOR activity of the self-limited Co catalyst inspires us to develop a simultaneous electrochemical hydrogen production system based on the HzOR||HER galvanic cell, which is advantageous over previous efforts on energy-consuming HzOR-assisted hydrogen evolution electrolyzers. Compared with thermal decomposition of hydrazine, which is also a simultaneous process to produce H2, the electrochemical approach offers high-purity H<sub>2</sub> at cathode and minimizes parasitic reactions (such as ammonia formation).

To assess the feasibility of this spontaneous hydrogen production device, we compared the current density of various HzOR catalysts at 0 V versus RHE (Figure 5a). It shows that our catalyst (p-ZIF/CF) exhibits the highest current density at 0 V, indicating its advantage for driving the HzOR||HER electrochemical system. Pt/C was used as a benchmark catalyst to obtain the typical LSV curve of HER. The LSV curves of HzOR and HER intersect at  $\approx$ 64 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is the theoretical current density of the short-circuit HzOR||HER cell (Figure 5b).

Subsequently, we implemented the spontaneous hydrogen production device in a flow cell with two-electrode configuration. Chronoamperometry at U = 0 V was conducted to assess the stability of the system (Figure 5c). The device maintained a stable current density of 40 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for 20 h, verifying the feasibility of the spontaneous hydrogen production device. The slight difference between the current density at the intersection point in the LSV curves and the current density measured by the homemade device could be attributed to the ohmic resistance of the device as well as the hindrance of gas bubbles during continuous operation. impendence between electrodes and electrolyte, as well as the challenges in discharging bubbles. This limitation can be overcome through improved device design in future studies.

Figure 5d displays the typical setup of the device for continuous hydrogen production. Hydrazine is filled to the anode and H2 is generated at the cathode, meanwhile, the operation of the device can be simply monitored by an ammeter. Movies S1 and S2 (Supporting Information) showcased visual demonstrations of the device operation, confirming the practicality of our concept. Such device can afford onboard and on-demand

production of high-purity H2 gas using hydrazine as a highdensity energy carrier, which directly power the hydrogen fuel cells (Figure 5e). Compared with the conventional hydrogen storage technologies, the electrochemical hydrogen generation system developed in this work makes hydrazine as a feasible hydrogen storage medium.

### 3. Conclusion

In this study, we have successfully synthesized self-limited Co nanoparticles derived from ZIF-67 arrays for efficiency hydrogen generation through hydrazine electrooxidation. The fragmented ZIF structure as the precursor of catalyst restrained the growth of Co, resulting in the formation of small defective Co nanoparticles with abundant under-coordinated surface atoms as active sites for HzOR. The self-limited Co catalysts demonstrated excellent HzOR performance, with a low overpotential of 230 mV (working potential: -0.1 V vs RHE) to achieve 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and a small Tafel slope of 3.91 mV  $dec^{-1}$  in 0.1 m  $N_2H_4/1$  m KOH electrolyte. DFT calculations revealed that the reduced N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>2</sub>\* adsorption energy on self-limited cobalt catalysts contributes to the lower reaction barrier and fast HzOR kinetics. Based on the highly active HzOR catalyst, we have successfully demonstrated a novel HzOR||HER electrochemical system for simultaneous H<sub>2</sub> production without the need for any external energy input. Our findings provide valuable insights into the construction of defected structures by utilizing organic ligands to preserve active catalytic sites. Moreover, a novel HzOR||HER electrochemical hydrogen production system has been proposed, paving the way toward sustainable and efficient hydrogen generation.

#### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

#### Acknowledgements

This work was supported by "the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities" (2021FZZX001-09), National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 22005266), and Zhejiang Provincial Natural Science Foundation (Grant No. LR21E020003). The authors would like to thank Yupeng Lou from Shiyanjia Lab (www.shiyanjia.com) for the XPS and TEM analysis.

#### Conflict of Interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### **Author Contributions**

Q.L. and H.B.W. conceived the idea. Q.L. carried out the experiments and simulations, interpreted the results, and wrote the draft of manuscript. X.T., X.L., J.L., X.L., Z.C., and Y.Y. carried out parts of the experiments. A.W. revised the manuscript. Y.Z. supervised the theoretical simulations. H.B.W. revised the manuscript and supervised the project. All authors have contributed to the scientific discussion of the project.

# <span id="page-9-0"></span>**Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

# **Keywords**

electrocatalysis, galvanic cell, Hydrazine oxidation, hydrogen evolution, low coordination

> Received: December 17, 2023 Revised: February 9, 2024 Published online: March 12, 2024

- [1] A. Zuttel, A. Remhof, A. Borgschulte, O. Friedrichs, *Philos. Trans. A Math Phys. Eng. Sci.* **2010**, *368*, 3329.
- [2] Y. Q. Zou, N. von Wolff, A. Anaby, Y. Xie, D. Milstein, *Nat. Catal.* **2019**, *2*, 415.
- [3] R. Asatryan, J. W. Bozzelli, G. D. Silva, S. Swinnen, M. T. Nguyen, *J. Phys. Chem. A.* **2010**, *114*, 6235.
- [4] S. K. Singh, Q. Xu, *Catal. Sci. Technol.* **2013**, *3*, 1889.
- [5] M. Zheng, R. Cheng, X. Chen, N. Li, L. Li, X. Wang, T. Zhang, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy.* **2005**, *30*, 1081.
- [6] Y. Liu, J. Zhang, Y. Li, Q. Qian, Z. Li, Y. Zhu, G. Zhang, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 1853.
- [7] Z. Yu, J. Xu, L. Meng, L. Liu, *J. Mater. Chem. A.* **2021**, *9*, 22248.
- [8] Q. Qian, Y. Li, Y. Liu, Y. Guo, Z. Li, Y. Zhu, G. Zhang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2021**, *414*, 128818.
- [9] F. Liu, H. Li, Y. Li, Q. Cao, X. Geng, C. Gu, W. Sun, J. Wang, *Sustain. Energy Fuels.* **2021**, *5*, 2257.
- [10] J. Li, Y. Li, J. Wang, C. Zhang, H. Ma, C. Zhu, D. Fan, Z. Guo, M. Xu, Y. Wang, H. Ma, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2109439.
- [11] Q. Liu, X. Liao, Y. Tang, J. Wang, X. Lv, X. Pan, R. Lu, Y. Zhao, X.-Y. Yu, H. B. Wu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 3246.
- [12] V. Rosca, M. T. M. Koper, *Electrochim. Acta.* **2008**, *53*, 5199.
- [13] P.-P. Tang, X. Lin, H. Yin, D.-X. Zhang, H. Wen, J.-J. Wang, P. Wang, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2020**, *8*, 16583.
- [14] Q. Xue, H. Huang, J.-Y. Zhu, Y. Zhao, F.-M. Li, P. Chen, Y. Chen, *Appl. Catal., B.* **2020**, *278*, 119269.
- [15] Y. Li, J. Zhang, Y. Liu, Q. Qian, Z. Li, Y. Zhu, G. Zhang, *Sci. Adv.* **2020**, *6*, 4197.
- [16] F. Liu, X. Jiang, H.-H. Wang, C. Chen, Y.-H. Yang, T. Sheng, Y.-S. Wei, X.-S. Zhao, L. Wei, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2022**, *10*, 696.
- [17] R. Agrawal, P. Phatak, L. Spanu, *Catal. Today.* **2018**, *312*, 174.
- [18] D. H. Nam, O. S. Bushuyev, J. Li, P. De Luna, A. Seifitokaldani, C. T. Dinh, F. P. Garcia de Arquer, Y. Wang, Z. Liang, A. H. Proppe, C. S. Tan, P. Todorovic, O. Shekhah, C. M. Gabardo, J. W. Jo, J. Choi, M. J. Choi, S. W. Baek, J. Kim, D. Sinton, S. O. Kelley, M. Eddaoudi, E. H. Sargent, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 11378.
- [19] J. Du, F. Li, L. Sun, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2021**, *50*, 2663.
- [20] M. Gong, D. Xiao, Z. Deng, R. Zhang, W. Xia, T. Zhao, X. Liu, T. Shen, Y. Hu, Y. Lu, X. Zhao, H. Xin, D. Wang, *Appl. Catal., B.* **2021**, *282*, 119617.

- [21] S. Fu, J. Song, C. Zhu, G.-L. Xu, K. Amine, C. Sun, X. Li, M. H. Engelhard, D. Du, Y. Lin, *Nano Energy.* **2018**, *44*, 319.
- [22] J. Geissbühler, S. De Wolf, B. Demaurex, J. P. Seif, D. T. L. Alexander, L. Barraud, C. Ballif, *Appl. Phys. Lett.* **2013**, *102*, 231604.
- [23] Y. Luo, Y. Wu, C. Huang, C. Menon, S.-P. Feng, P. K. Chu, *EcoMat.* **2022**, *4*, e12197.
- [24] C. Guo, Y. Wu, Z. Li, W. Liao, L. Sun, C. Wang, B. Wen, Y. Li, C. Chen, *Nanoscale Res. Lett.* **2017**, *12*, 144.
- [25] K. R. Yoon, K. Shin, J. Park, S. H. Cho, C. Kim, J. W. Jung, J. Y. Cheong, H. R. Byon, H. M. Lee, I. D. Kim, *ACS Nano.* **2018**, *12*, 128.
- [26] C.-T. Dinh, A. Jain, F. P. G. de Arquer, P. De Luna, J. Li, N. Wang, X. Zheng, J. Cai, B. Z. Gregory, O. Voznyy, B. Zhang, M. Liu, D. Sinton, E. J. Crumlin, E. H. Sargent, *Nat. Energy.* **2018**, *4*, 107.
- [27] K. I. Hadjiivanov, D. A. Panayotov, M. Y. Mihaylov, E. Z. Ivanova, K. K. Chakarova, S. M. Andonova, N. L. Drenchev, *Chem. Rev.* **2021**, *121*, 1286.
- [28] S. Rafiei, S. Tangestaninejad, P. Horcajada, M. Moghadam, V. Mirkhani, I. Mohammadpoor-Baltork, R. Kardanpour, F. Zadehahmadi, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2018**, *334*, 1233.
- [29] M. Meilikhov, K. Yusenko, D. Esken, S. Turner, G. Van Tendeloo, R. A. Fischer, *Eur. J. Inorg. Chem.* **2010**, *2010*, 3701.
- [30] S. Sonsupap, W. Ponhan, K. Wongsaprom, *J. Supercond. Nov. Magn.* **2016**, *29*, 1641.
- [31] Y. Zhang, Y. Lin, H. Jiang, C. Wu, H. Liu, C. Wang, S. Chen, T. Duan, L. Song, *Small.* **2018**, *14*, 1702074.
- [32] Y. Wu, Z. Chen, W. C. Cheong, C. Zhang, L. Zheng, W. Yan, R. Yu, C. Chen, Y. Li, *Chem. Sci.* **2019**, *10*, 5345.
- [33] E. Moazzen, E. V. Timofeeva, C. U. Segre, *Electrochim. Acta.* **2017**, *258*, 684.
- [34] S. Liu, H. B. Yang, S. F. Hung, J. Ding, W. Cai, L. Liu, J. Gao, X. Li, X. Ren, Z. Kuang, Y. Huang, T. Zhang, B. Liu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. Engl.* **2020**, *59*, 798.
- [35] R. G. Kadam, T. Zhang, D. Zaoralova, M. Medved, A. Bakandritsos, O. Tomanec, M. Petr, J. Zhu Chen, J. T. Miller, M. Otyepka, R. Zboril, T. Asefa, M. B. Gawande, *Small.* **2021**, *17*, 2006477.
- [36] A. Frenkel, *Z Kristallogr Cryst. Mater.* **2007**, *222*, 605.
- [37] G. Cheng, J. D. Carter, T. Guo, *Chem. Phys. Lett.* **2004**, *400*, 122.
- [38] Z. Lu, M. Sun, T. Xu, Y. Li, W. Xu, Z. Chang, Y. Ding, X. Sun, L. Jiang, *Adv. Mater.* **2015**, *27*, 2361.
- [39] Y. Tang, Q. Liu, L. Dong, H. B. Wu, X.-Y. Yu, *Appl. Catal., B.* **2020**, *266*, 118627.
- [40] J. A. Trindell, Z. Duan, G. Henkelman, R. M. Crooks, *Chem. Rev.* **2020**, *120*, 814.
- [41] J. D. Jimenez, C. Wen, M. M. Royko, A. J. Kropf, C. Segre, J. Lauterbach, *ChemCatChem.* **2019**, *12*, 846.
- [42] M. P. C. van Etten, B. Zijlstra, E. J. M. Hensen, I. A. W. Filot, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, 8484.
- [43] C. Amiens, D. Ciuculescu-Pradines, K. Philippot, *Coord. Chem. Rev.* **2016**, *308*, 409.
- [44] U. Eisner, E. Gileadi, *J. Electroanal. Chem. Interfacial Electrochem.* **1970**, *28*, 81.
- [45] N. K. Katiyar, S. Dhakar, A. Parui, P. Gakhad, A. K. Singh, K. Biswas, C. S. Tiwary, S. Sharma, *ACS Catal.* **2021**, *11*, 14000.
- [46] A. H. Cowley, D. J. Mitchell, M. H. Whangbo, S. Wolfe, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **1979**, *101*, 5224.