---
source: Mishra 等 - 2025 - Co9 S8 CoTe2 n‐n Type Heterojunction A Heterogenic Interfacial In.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 84.574s
generated: 2026-01-10T07:46:21.709113Z
---

# Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> n-n Type Heterojunction: A Heterogenic Interfacial Integration of Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub> and CoTe<sub>2</sub> Phases for **Energy-Efficient Hydrazine Oxidation Assisted Hydrogen Production**

Viplove Mishra, Athma E. Praveen, Diya Raveendran, Aditi Chandrasekar,\* and Venkataramanan Mahalingam\*

Controlled and optimized heterogenic interfacial coupling is the key to enhance the electrochemical performance. Herein, for the first time, telluride-based Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure is reported as a bifunctional catalyst for energy-efficient H2 generation. Detailed investigations suggest that the heterogenic interfacial coupling leads to superior bifunctional electrochemical performance of the Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure. Furthermore, it displays excellent hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR) performance at industrial-level current density (500 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> @ 338 mV) using an electrochemically neutral carbon paper substrate. The overall hydrazine electrooxidation-assisted water splitting (OHzWS) cell performance of the Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure couple is 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> @ 0.22 V, which is 1.60 V less than the conventional overall water splitting. Band energy profiles of Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure reveal an n-n type heterojunction formation between Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub> and CoTe2 phases. The work function difference between the phases results in an impulsive electron flow from the CoTe2 to the Co9S8 phase and the creation of a built-in electric field. This prompts the electrochemical kinetics of HzOR and hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) by enabling faster charge transport at the interface. Furthermore, DFT supports the experimental findings, and Gibbs's free energy profile for HzOR studies indicate that the Co<sub>o</sub>S<sub>o</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure interface is favorable for HzOR compared to Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub> and CoTe<sub>2</sub>.

1. Introduction

The worldwide growing need for energy and the harmful impact of non-renewable energy sources have driven researchers to

V. Mishra, A. E. Praveen, D. Raveendran, V. Mahalingam Department of Chemical Sciences Indian Institute of Science Education and Research Kolkata Mohanpur, West Bengal 741246, India

School of Arts and Sciences Azim Premji University Bangalore 562125, India

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202412372

DOI: 10.1002/smll.202412372

E-mail: mvenkat@iiserkol.ac.in A. Chandrasekar E-mail: aditi.chandrasekar@apu.edu.in search for sustainable alternatives. Hydrogen, with its high energy density (142 MJ Kg<sup>-1</sup>) and zero carbon emission, is considered a potential substitute for fossil fuels. Water electrolysis offers an eco-friendly method for the large-scale production of green hydrogen, compared to traditional natural gas steam reforming.<sup>[1–3]</sup> However, the generation of hydrogen still requires a high cell potential of 1.6-2.0 V because of the inherent high thermodynamic potential (1.23 V) and the sluggish dynamics of the anodic oxygen evolution reaction (OER).[4,5] Recently, replacing OER with thermodynamically favorable reactions at the anode has been identified as the intriguing approach for reducing the energy consumption of hydrogen production. [6-9] Hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR) is a potential candidate to substitute OER owing to its low thermodynamic potential (-0.33 V) and zero carbon emission with N2 as a by-product. In addition, HzOR eliminates the risk of H2 and  $O_2$  gas crossover and creates the possibility of constructing a membrane-free cell.[10,11]

Transition metal-based oxides, nitrides, phosphides, and chalcogenides have recently been explored as bi-functional HzOR and hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) electrocatalysts for HzOR-assisted water electrolysis systems for hydrogen production.[12-18] Among them, transition metal-based chalcogenides (TMC) have emerged as efficient and inexpensive electrode materials for HzOR and HER.[6,11,19-24] In particular, sulfides and selenide-based materials are widely studied for overall hydrazine electrooxidation-assisted water splitting (OHzWS).[25-36] For instance, Gao et al. reported NiSe/Nickel Foam bifunctional catalyst, delivering 0.31 V @ 10 mAcm<sup>-2</sup> for OHzWS.[37] Sun et al. synthesized the CoS<sub>2</sub> nanosheet over titanium mesh (CoS<sub>2</sub>/TiM), which required 0.81 V @ 100 mAcm<sup>-2</sup> for OHzWS.[38] In another report, Wang et al. fabricated cobalt per-selenide (CoSe<sub>2</sub>/NF) using nickel foam as substrate, showing OHzWS activity of 0.16 V @ 10 mAcm<sup>-2</sup>.[39] Interestingly, a closer look into chalcogenide reports indicates a strong

focus on transition metal sulfides and selenides, whereas there are no reports on telluride-based bifunctional electrocatalysts for OHzWS. Although telluride research has received less attention, the electrical and bonding characteristics of transition metal tellurides appear to be more intriguing. Tellurium has the lowest electronegativity compared to the elements O, S, and Se; as a result, transition metal tellurides have a higher covalency and metallic character than their oxide, sulfide, and selenide counterparts.[\[40–42\]](#page-13-0) The higher metallic nature imparts good electronic conductivity, a favorable property for electrocatalysis owing to better charge transport between the electrolyte and electrode interface, ultimately resulting in improved electrochemical performance.[\[43\]](#page-13-0)

Recently, synergistic interfacial coupling of two phases by different heterogenic contact formations emerged as a promising approach to further regulate interfacial properties for boosting electrochemical performance.[\[44–46\]](#page-13-0) For instance, Tong et al. synthesized cobalt hydroxide/molybdenum disulfide bifunctional catalyst for energy-efficient OHzWS.[\[47\]](#page-13-0) Similarly, Li et al. fabricated CoSe2/MoSe2 nanospheres electrocatalyst for hydrazine oxidation-assisted hydrogen production.[\[48\]](#page-13-0) In this work, our aim is to develop a telluride-based n-n type Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure as a bifunctional electrocatalyst for an energyefficient OHzWS system. The choice of Co9S8 is based on their substantially good electrochemical performance and durability for HER and HzOR.[\[49–51\]](#page-13-0) Meanwhile, the CoTe2 is considered due to the structural stability, metallic conductivity, electronic properties, and superior electrochemical performance among cobalt tellurides.[\[41,43,52,53\]](#page-13-0) For the synthesis of Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure, we have used the single-step hydrothermal technique without using any template where controlled nucleation and growth cannot be expected. It is interesting to note that uncontrolled growth results in a significant number of crystal lattice defects, which can enhance the electrocatalytic performance by creating catalytically active sites.[\[54,55\]](#page-13-0)

Herein, the n-n type Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure was created by optimizing the tellurium and sulfur concentration in the system to maximize the impact of synergistic heterogenic interfacial coupling. The electrocatalytic activity of the optimized Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure outperforms the individual phase Co9S8 and CoTe2 counterparts. The Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure demonstrates superior bifunctional electrochemical performance for both HzOR (10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> @ 125 mV) and HER (10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> @ 142 mV). Further, the intrinsic activity (mass-normalized specific activity) measurement corroborates the higher intrinsic activity of the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure for both HzOR and HER compared to the Co9S8 and CoTe2 counterparts. Additionally, the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure has shown excellent stability for 100 and 48 h for HzOR and HER, respectively. Furthermore, it displayed excellent HzOR performance at an industrial-level current density (500 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> @ 338 mV for 12 h) using an inexpensive and electrochemically neutral carbon paper substrate. After the complete characterization and detailed investigation, we found that the n-n heterojunction formation between Co9S8 and CoTe2 phases triggers an oriented built-in electric field, facilitating faster electronic charge transportation at the interface, reducing charge transfer resistance and improving electrochemical performance for HER and HzOR.[\[56–61\]](#page-13-0) Furthermore, the density functional theory (DFT) calculations have proved to be helpful in determining the free energies associated with the mechanistic steps in the HzOR.[\[28,35,37,39\]](#page-12-0) DFT calculation validates the experimental finding and confirms the superior electrochemical performance of the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure and shows a more favorable pathway for HzOR in the case of the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure. Furthermore, the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure couple offers excellent OHzWS performance with a low cell voltage requirement of 0.22 V to attain a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and stable for 3500 continuous cycles. Along with this, the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure couple showed consistency for 15 h OHzWS cell performance at a high current density of 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2@ 0.71 V. The OHzWS performance of the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure couple is better than most of the recently reported chalcogenide-based bifunctional catalysts.

# **2. Results and Discussion**

In a typical synthesis of Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructures, CoSO4·7H2O (0.5 mmol), TeO2 (x = 0.025 mmol Co9S8/CoTe2-A, 0.050 mmol Co9S8/CoTe2-B, 0.075 mmol Co9S8/CoTe2-C and thiourea (0.5-x mmol) were treated in hydrothermal condition at 180 °C for 24 h in presence of N2H4· H2O (1 mL). For ease of understanding, Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure refers to the materials with 0.05 mmol TeO2 (Co9S8/CoTe2-B) used otherwise mentioned (refer to the Experimental Section of Supporting Information for the synthesis details of all materials).

#### **2.1. Phase Analysis**

The phase purity of synthesized materials was characterized by powder X-ray diffraction (PXRD). As shown in **Figure 1**[a,](#page-2-0) the PXRD patterns of synthesized Co9S8 and CoTe2 are in accordance with the corresponding standard patterns, i.e., cubic phase Co9S8 (ICDD-862273) and orthorhombic CoTe2 (ICDD-740245). The PXRD pattern of the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure displayed characteristic diffraction peaks of both Co9S8 and CoTe2 phases, confirming the presence of both Co9S8 and CoTe2 phases in the heterostructure sample.

The PXRD patterns of other Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructures (A, C) also show similar observations with the concurrent presence of both Co9S8 and CoTe2 phases. It is clear from the XRD results that the presence of the CoTe2 phase started to appear in the heterostructure sample once tellurium was introduced in the reaction. Further, the intensity of the diffraction peaks corresponding to CoTe2 becomes more significant with increased Te content in the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure. In contrast, diffraction peaks corresponding to Co9S8 decrease. (Figure [1b\)](#page-2-0).

#### **2.2. Morphology Analysis**

Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was used to investigate the surface morphology of the synthesized materials. SEM image of Co9S8 shows an irregular morphology composed of interconnected particles. (Figure S1a, Supporting Information). Moreover, heterostructure formation does not lead to any significant change in surface morphology, and the SEM image of

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) PXRD patterns of as-synthesized samples. b) PXRD patterns of Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructures. c) HRTEM image of Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure. Inverse FFT images and FFT images (inset) for planes present in Zone 1(d–f) and Zone 2 (g–i). j) HRTEM image of Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure. Inverse FFT images and FFT images (inset) for planes present in Zone 1(k–m) and Zone 2 (n–p).

16136829, 2025, 10, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.002/smll.202412372 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [070/1/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for June 2018 (Feeting Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons Licenseque Commons L

the Co<sub>o</sub>S<sub>o</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure also displayed an irregular morphology made up of aggregated particles. The other Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructures (A,C) display similar surface morphology as the Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure (Figure S1b-d, Supporting Information). Furthermore, similar morphology was observed for the pristine CoTe<sub>2</sub> (Figure S1e, Supporting Information). Moreover, transmission electron microscopy (TEM) supports the findings of SEM analysis and reaffirms the irregular morphology made up of interconnected particles for Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>, Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure, and CoTe<sub>2</sub> (Figure S2a-c, Supporting Information). In the high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) analysis of as-synthesized Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>, the HRTEM image shows the presence of lattice fringes with the interlayer distance of d = (0.299, 0.227, and 0.175 nm) corresponding to the (311), (331), and (440) planes of cubic phase of  $Co_9S_8$  in zone 1, 2, and 3, respectively (Figure S3a, Supporting Information). The presence of (311), (331), and (440) planes of the cubic phase of  $Co_9S_8$  is further supported by their respective inverse FFT image and FFT image (inset) of zone-1, 2, and 3, respectively (Figure S3b-d, Supporting Information). The HRTEM analysis for the CoTe<sub>2</sub> sample shows (111), (012), and (020) planes of the orthorhombic phase of CoTe2 in zone-1, 2, and 3, respectively, with the corresponding interplanar distance of d = (0.28, 0.27, and 0.26 nm), respectively (Figure S3e, Supporting Information). The calculated interlayer distances by inverse FFT and FFT images of zone-1, 2, and 3 again support the presence of (111), (012), and (020) planes of the orthorhombic phase of CoTe2 (Figure S3f-h, Supporting Information). The HRTEM image of the Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure shows two distinguished heterogenic interfacial coupling zones, where at zone-1, the (331) plane of  $Co_9S_8$  gets coupled with the (020) and (111) planes of CoTe<sub>2</sub> making an evident heterogenic interfacial junction between the cubic phase of Co<sub>o</sub>S<sub>8</sub> and orthorhombic phase of CoTe<sub>2</sub> (Figure 1d-f). Furthermore, the zone-2 confirms the heterogenic interfacial junction between the cubic phase of Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub> and the orthorhombic phase of CoTe<sub>2</sub> with a clear sandwich of the (012) plane of CoTe<sub>2</sub> in between the (200) and (111) plane of Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub> (Figure 1g-i). Another HRTEM image of Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure shows distinct heterogenic interface formation between the Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub> and CoTe<sub>2</sub> phases (Figure 1j). It clearly shows two distinguished heterogenic interfacial coupling zones, where in zone-1, the (400) plane of Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub> gets coupled with the (021) and (101) planes of CoTe<sub>2</sub> making an evident heterogenic interfacial junction between the cubic phase of Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub> and orthorhombic phase of CoTe<sub>2</sub> (Figure 1k-m). Furthermore, the zone-2 confirms the heterogenic interfacial junction between the cubic phase of Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub> and the orthorhombic phase of CoTe, with a clear interface (101) plane of CoTe, with the (511) and (222) plane of Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub> (Figure 1n-p). These observations corroborate the coexistence and interfacial coupling between the cubic phase of Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub> and the orthorhombic phase of CoTe<sub>2</sub>.

#### 2.3. Elemental Analysis

The ICP-OES analysis was performed to find the correct elemental ratio of Te: S in the heterostructures. The Te: S ratio was found to be ( $\sim$  0.11: 0.89, 0.15: 0.85, 0.24: 0.76) for Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub>- (A, B, C) heterostructures, respectively (Table S1, Supporting Information of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1 of the S1

mation). Further, to understand the spatial distribution of sulfur, tellurium, and cobalt in the Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure SEM-EDS elemental mapping of the heterostructure was performed. Figure S4a (Supporting Information) shows the SEM image of the Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure and selected region for the EDS and elemental mapping. As shown in Figure S4b (Supporting Information), the EDS spectrum of Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure shows the presence of Co, S, and Te in the material, and the quantification of the S:Te ratio is found to be  $\approx$ 0.91:0.09, which is similar to the experimental ratio of S:Te (0.90:0.10) which was taken for the synthesis of Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure. The elemental mapping of the Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure shows a uniform distribution of cobalt throughout the material, while a distinguished and heterogenic spatial distribution of sulfur and tellurium can be observed with elemental mapping. This could be concluded as the heterogenic interfacial interaction between the Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub> and CoTe<sub>2</sub> phases in the material. The similar morphology of Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub> and CoTe<sub>2</sub> phases creates the problem of identification of these individual phases, but the elemental mapping clearly shows the spatial distribution of both phases and their heterostructure features (Figure \$4c-e, Supporting Information). Furthermore, the TEM-EDS elemental mapping of the Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure Shows a similar observation as of SEM-EDS elemental mapping and confirms the heterogenic interfacial interaction between the Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub> and CoTe<sub>2</sub> phases (Figure S5a–e, Supporting Information).

#### 2.4. Chemical State Analysis

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was used to perform chemical state analysis of Co, S, and Te in Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>, CoTe<sub>2</sub>, and Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure. Figure 2a shows the survey spectrum of Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>, CoTe<sub>2</sub>, and Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure. In Figure 2b, the Co 2p spectra of  $Co_9S_8$  can be fitted into Co  $2p_{3/2}$ (778.7, 781.8, 783.5, and 787.0 eV) and Co  $2p_{1/2}$  (793.9, 797.3,799.3, and 803.2 eV). The peaks located at 778.7 eV  $(2p_{3/2})$  and 793.9 eV (2p<sub>1/2</sub>) designated to metallic cobalt state, while the peaks at 781.8 eV  $(2p_{3/2})$  and 797.3 eV  $(2p_{1/2})$  is for Co<sup>3+</sup>, whereas 783.5 eV  $(2p_{3/2})$  and 799.3 eV  $(2p_{1/2})$  can be assigned to  $Co^{2+}$ . The peaks positioned at 787.0 eV  $(2p_{3/2})$  and 803.2 eV  $(2p_{1/2})$  can be designated as satellite peaks. [49,62] The Co 2p fitted spectra for  $\text{CoTe}_2$  have Co  $2p_{\scriptscriptstyle 3/2}$  (781.1 and 785.6 eV) and Co  $2p_{\scriptscriptstyle 1/2}$  (797.0 and 802.6 eV) peaks. Peaks associated with Co<sup>2+</sup> are assigned to 781.1 eV  $(2p_{3/2})$  and 797 eV  $(2p_{1/2})$ . The peaks centered at 785.6 eV  $(2p_{3/2})$  and 802.6 eV  $(2p_{1/2})$  are arising due to satellite peaks.<sup>[63]</sup> The peak-fitted Co 2p spectra of Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure consists of Co 2p<sub>3/2</sub> (778.5, 780.8, 782.2, and 786.5 eV) and Co 2p<sub>1/2</sub> (793.5, 796.4, 798.0, and 802.9 eV) peaks. The presence of the peaks positioned at 778.5 eV  $(2p_{3/2})$  and 793.5 eV  $(2p_{1/2})$  suggests the presence of metallic cobalt in the system. Co<sup>3+</sup> species can be ascribed to peaks centered at 780.8 eV  $(2p_{3/2})$  and 796.4 eV  $(2p_{1/2})$ , while peaks associated with  $Co^{2+}$  species can be observed at 782.2 eV  $(2p_{3/2})$  and 798.0 eV  $(2p_{1/2})$ . The corresponding satellite peaks are at 786.5 eV (2p<sub>3/2</sub>) and 802.9 eV (2p<sub>1/2</sub>), respectively. Close inspection of the Co 2p XPS spectra of Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure shows that the characteristic peaks (Co<sup>2+</sup> and Co  $^{3+}\mbox{)}$  of Co  $2p_{3/2}$  and Co  $2p_{1/2}$  get shifted by  $\approx\!1.0\text{--}1.3$  eV toward

<span id="page-4-0"></span>Figure 2. XPS spectra of a) survey of  $Co_9S_8/CoTe_2$  heterostructure,  $Co_9S_8$ , and  $CoTe_2$ . b) Co2p of  $Co_9S_8/CoTe_2$  heterostructure,  $Co_9S_8$ , and  $CoTe_2$ . c) S 2p of  $Co_9S_8/CoTe_2$  heterostructure and  $Co_9S_8$ . d) Te 3d of  $Co_9S_8/CoTe_2$  heterostructure and  $CoTe_2$ .

lower binding energy compared to pure phase  $\text{Co}_9\text{S}_8$ . In contrast, compared to the  $\text{CoTe}_2$  phase, the values of  $\text{Co}^{2+}$  get shifted by  $\approx 1.0\,$  eV toward higher binding energy. The observed shift in the binding energies signifies the electronic redistribution, presumably, due to the heterogenic interface formation between the  $\text{Co}_9\text{S}_8$  and  $\text{CoTe}_2$  phases. [48,64] Figure 2c shows the S 2p spectra of  $\text{Co}_9\text{S}_8$  and  $\text{Co}_9\text{S}_8$ /CoTe $_2$  heterostructure. The 161.4 and 162.5 eV peaks can be designated as S 2p $_{3/2}$  and S 2p $_{1/2}$ . The peak centered at  $\approx 169\,$  eV corresponds to S-O species noted due to inevitable air oxidation. [51] The Te 3d spectra of  $\text{CoTe}_2$  and the  $\text{Co}_9\text{S}_8$ /CoTe $_2$  heterostructure show characteristic peaks of Te 3d $_{5/2}$  and Te 3d $_{3/2}$  at 576.1 and 586.5 eV, respectively. In addition, the Te 3d spectra of  $\text{CoTe}_2$  show metallic Te species peaks at 573.1 and 583.5 eV (Figure 2d). [63]

#### 2.5. Growth Mechanism Studies

To understand the growth mechanism of  $\text{Co}_9\text{S}_8/\text{CoTe}_2$  heterostructure, we have synthesized various  $\text{Co}_9\text{S}_8/\text{CoTe}_2$  heterostructures by varying the duration of synthesis, temperature, and hydrazine concentration by keeping the rest of the parameters constant.

#### 2.6. Phase Analysis

#### 2.6.1. Time-Dependent Growth Mechanism Studies

As shown in Figure S6 (Supporting Information), the PXRD patterns of time-dependent growth mechanism studies for the Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure suggest a gradual formation of Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure with an increase in duration of synthesis. The PXRD pattern of Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub>- 6 h shows tellurium impurities peaks at  $2\theta$  degrees of 25.1 and 27.8, along with some foreign impurity peaks at  $2\theta$  degrees of  $\approx 20.5$  and 22.3. No significant peaks belonging to Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub> and CoTe<sub>2</sub> phases were noted. In the PXRD pattern of Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub>- 12 h, the foreign impurity peaks disappear, the intensity of tellurium impurities peaks decrease, and the peaks belonging to Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub> and CoTe<sub>2</sub> phases start appearing. The PXRD pattern of Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub>- 18 h shows a further decrease in the intensity of tellurium impurities peaks and distinguished peaks for Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub> and CoTe<sub>2</sub> phases. In addition, the more prominent peaks of the  $Co_9S_8$  phase can be seen at  $2\theta$  degrees of  $\approx 15.4$ , 30.0 and 52.4. Only after 24 h the  $Co_0S_8/CoTe_2$ heterostructure shows a PXRD pattern with negligible tellurium impurities and distinguished crystalline peaks of Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub> and CoTe<sub>2</sub> phases. The time-dependent growth mechanism studies

suggest that the optimum synthesis time for Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure is 24 h.

# *2.6.2. Temperature-Dependent Growth Mechanism Studies*

The temperature-dependent growth mechanism studies for the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure also suggest a gradual formation of Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure with an increase in synthesis temperature. The PXRD patterns of Co9S8/CoTe2 −120 °C and Co9S8/CoTe2 −150 °C show tellurium impurities at 2 degrees of 25.1 and 27.8, which diminished with an increase in synthesis temperature like at 180 °C. The PXRD pattern of Co9S8/CoTe2 −180 °C shows distinguished coexistence of the Co9S8 and CoTe2 phases with no tellurium impurities (Figure S7, Supporting Information). The temperature-dependent growth mechanism studies for the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure suggest that the optimum synthesis temperature for the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure is 180 °C.

# *2.6.3. Hydrazine Concentration-Dependent Growth Mechanism Studies*

To understand the effects of the concentration of hydrazine on Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure, we have synthesized two different Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructures with varying hydrazine hydrate concentrations of 1 and 3 mL. As displayed in Figure S8 (Supporting Information), the PXRD pattern for Co9S8/CoTe2 – 3 mL N2H4 shows more amorphous peaks than the Co9S8/CoTe2 – 1 mL N2H4. Thus, with the increase in hydrazine hydrate concentration, the crystallinity of the material decreases.

#### **2.7. Morphology Analysis**

#### *2.7.1. Time-Dependent Growth Mechanism Studies*

Time-dependent morphology changes are one of the important phenomena in understanding the growth mechanism of material. The SEM images of Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructures synthesized at different reaction durations show the gradual transformation of flake morphology (Co9S8/CoTe2- 6 h) to irregular particle-like morphology (Co9S8/CoTe2- 24 h). The SEM images of the Co9S8/CoTe2- 12 h and Co9S8/CoTe2- 18 h show intermediate morphology with both flake and irregular particle morphology. Subsequently, this was converted mostly to irregular particlelike morphology by 24 h (Figure S9, Supporting Information).

#### *2.7.2. Temperature-Dependent Growth Mechanism Studies*

Temperature-dependent SEM images also show the gradual transformation of flake morphology (Co9S8/CoTe2- 120 °C) to intermediate morphology with both flake and irregular particle morphology together (Co9S8/CoTe2- 150 °C). This ultimately transforms into irregular particle-like morphology (Co9S8/CoTe2- 180 °C) (Figure S10, Supporting Information).

#### *2.7.3. Hydrazine Concentration-Dependent Growth Mechanism Studies*

Variations in the hydrazine concentration do not show any notable changes in the morphology. Both Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructures displayed an irregular morphology made up of aggregated particles. (Figure S11, Supporting Information).

# *2.7.4. Electrochemical Studies*

The evaluation of electrochemical performance for synthesized materials was performed in 1 m KOH electrolyte (experimental details are in the Supporting Information). The catalysts were exposed to 20 cycles of preconditioning before electrocatalytic measurements. For HzOR, initially, we optimized the hydrazine concentration in 1 m KOH electrolyte. Figure S12 (Supporting Information) shows the liner sweep voltammetry (LSV) polarisation curves for different concentrations of hydrazine in electrolytic solution. The negligible oxidation response in hydrazinefree solution and increase in the anodic response with increased hydrazine concentration confirms the electrochemical active nature of the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure. With an insignificant change in onset potential after 0.5 m N2H4, the 0.5 m N2H4 in 1 m KOH is considered the optimized electrolyte solution for further experiments. Compared to pure phases of Co9S8 and CoTe2, the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure possesses superior electrochemical performance (shown in iR corrected LSV curves **Figure 3**[a\)](#page-6-0). The bar diagram Figure [3b](#page-6-0) depicts the potential requirement for HzOR performance, the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure required a low potential of 125 mV to attain 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> compared to Co9S8 (166 mV) and CoTe2 (444 mV). Moreover, investigating the HzOR performance of other Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructures (A and C) with varying S and Te contents has helped to comprehend the significance of optimal interfacial coupling. Figure S13 (Supporting Information) shows a comparison of the HzOR electrochemical performance of all three Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructures.

The Co9S8/CoTe2-A and Co9S8/CoTe2-C, respectively, required potential of 140 and 159 mV to attain 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, which is higher than the Co9S8/CoTe2-B (125 mV) heterostructure. The above results corroborate that the enhanced electrocatalytic HzOR performance of the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure is mainly because of the optimal synergistic interfacial coupling between the two phases in the heterostructure. In addition, the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure displays excellent HzOR performance at comparably higher current density (500 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> @ 338 mV) without using any metallic foam substrate. Further, to comprehend the role of heterostructure formation in enhancing the electrochemical HzOR performance, the HzOR performance of a physical mixture of Co9S8 and CoTe2 in different ratios (0.95:0.05, 0.90:0.10, 0.85:0.15) are compared with Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure and pure phases, Co9S8, and CoTe2. The HzOR performance of physical mixtures is found to be lower than the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure and Co9S8 phases but better than the CoTe2 phase (Figure S14, Supporting Information). It again confirms that the synergistic interfacial coupling is the crucial factor in the superior electrocatalytic HzOR performance of the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure. To understand the HzOR

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 3.** a) LSV curves of different catalysts for HzOR. b) Bar diagram displaying the HzOR performance of different catalysts. c) Tafel plot showing the calculated slope of different catalysts for HzOR. d) Nyquist plot for EIS measurement of different catalysts for HzOR.

electrochemical activity further, Tafel analysis, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS), and Electrochemical double layer capacitance (Cdl) assessment were performed. The HzOR reaction kinetics were examined by Tafel analysis. Relatively lower Tafel slope value of Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure (111 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) compared to Co9S8 (122 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) and CoTe2 (127 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) implies faster electrochemical kinetics for Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure (Figure 3c). To better understand the possible causes of such improved electrochemical HzOR activity of Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure, an EIS investigation was done at −0.7 V versus Ag/AgCl. EIS further supports the faster electrochemical kinetics for the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure with the lower charge transfer resistance of ≈3.5 Ω against the Co9S8 (≈5.4 Ω) and CoTe2 (≈724 Ω) (Figure 3d). Generally, the Electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) is recognized as one of the key parameters influencing the electrocatalytic activity. Several recent studies have found that when ECSA increases, so does the electrocatalytic activity of materials. However, due to the inherent limitation of all known approaches, determining ECSA accurately is highly complicated. According to Surendranath et al., the Cdl value of a material measured in non-aqueous electrolytes such as KPF6/acetonitrile is proportional to the ECSA for transition metal-based compounds; hence the Cdl value can be used for qualitative comparison of ECSA.[\[65\]](#page-13-0) Qualitative comparison of electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) is also in accordance with the electrochemical activity as the Cdl values are found to be 55.7, 26.2, and 5.1 mF cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure, Co9S8, and CoTe2, respectively (Figure S15, Supporting Information).

The durability of the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure electrocatalyst for HzOR was assessed by chronopotentiometry (CP) analysis. As shown in Figure S17 (Supporting Information), the CP curve for HzOR shows the 100 h continuous HzOR performance for the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. Initially, the HzOR performance was stable up to 30 h @ 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> with only a ≈16 mV increase in the potential requirement. As mentioned in the previous literature, the increase in potential requirements could be due to either the degradation of electrocatalysts or the consumption of hydrazine during HzOR.[\[25,39\]](#page-12-0) To validate the reason, the electrolytic solution was replaced with a new solution after 30 h. The electrochemical performance of HzOR is regained and shows a similar trend of HzOR performance as fresh Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure electrocatalysts for another 30 h with an increase in potential requirement by 14 mV. It confirms that the increase in potential requirement was due to hydrazine consumption and not due to any degradation of electrocatalysts. To reaffirm the phenomenon of hydrazine consumption, we have again replaced the electrolyte with a fresh solution. The electrochemical performance of HzOR is regained and shows a similar trend of HzOR performance for another 40 h with an increase in potential requirement by 20 mV. Furthermore, the Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure displayed excellent durability for industrial-level current density (12 h @ 500 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) (Figure S18, Supporting Information). Cyclic stability test is another useful method for testing the durability of electrocatalysts. Herein, we have tested the electrochemical HzOR performance of the Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure for 5500 cycles. As discussed earlier, due to hydrazine consumption in the system during HzOR, we need to change the electrolytes after a particular period. As depicted in Figure \$19a (Supporting Information) for the first round of electrochemical HzOR performance cycling, we performed 2750 cycles, and found an observable decrease in HzOR activity for the 1500th and 2750th cycles. After changing the electrolyte at the 2751st cycle, the Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure regained its initial HzOR performance (similar to the 1st cycle). For the second round of electrochemical HzOR performance cycling, we extended cycles to 5500 cycles, and we found a notable decrease in HzOR activity at the 4250th (similar to the 1500th cycle) and 5500th cycles (similar to the 2750th cycle). The HzOR performance of the Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure regained once again after changing the electrolyte at the 5501st cycle (similar to the 1st cycle and 2751st cycle). The HzOR performance of the Co<sub>0</sub>S<sub>2</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure regained once again after changing the electrolyte at the 5501st cycle (similar to the 1st cycle and 2751st cycle). The bar diagram in Figure S19b,c (Supporting Information) shows the potential requirement for electrochemical HzOR activity at 10 and 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. The similarity in potential requirements for (1st cycle, 751st cycle, and 5501st cycle), (1500th cycle and 4250th cycle) and (2750th cycle and 5500th cycle) at 10 and 100 mA  $cm^{-2}$  confirms that the decrement in electrochemical performance was due to hydrazine consumption and validated the excellent stability of Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure for HzOR. A comparison table is made to understand the efficiency of the developed heterostructure catalysts toward HzOR compared to literature reports. It is clear from Table S2 (Supporting Information) that the Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure has superior HzOR activity and durability compared to most of the chalcogenide-based HzOR catalysts reported in the literature. Furthermore, it has even comparable HzOR activity to those catalysts deposited on electrochemically active and expensive metal substrates like Ni foam. To find out the change in potential requirement when kinetically sluggish OER is replaced by HzOR, the OER activity of Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure was evaluated in 1 M KOH solution. The comparison of OER (10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> @  $\approx$ 1.54 V) and HzOR (10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> @  $\approx$ 0.12 V) LSV curves shows that there is a decrement of  $\approx$ 1.42 V to attain the benchmark current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> with HzOR (Figure \$20, Supporting Information). To understand the feasibility of constructing an OHzWS electrolyzer system, the HER activity of the Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure is stud-

ied. The iR-corrected LSV curves displayed in Figure 4a and the bar diagram displayed in Figure 4b shows that the HER performance of the  $\rm Co_9S_8/CoTe_2$  heterostructure (10 mA cm $^{-2}$  @ 142 mV) is better than  $\rm Co_9S_8$  (10 mA cm $^{-2}$  @ 167 mV) and  $\rm CoTe_2$  (10 mA cm $^{-2}$  @ 351 mV). Among the three heterostructures, HER activity of the  $\rm Co_9S_8/CoTe_2$ -B (10 mA cm $^{-2}$  @ 142 mV) heterostructure is better than other heterostructures  $\rm Co_9S_8/CoTe_2$ -A (10 mA cm $^{-2}$  @ 160 mV) and  $\rm Co_9S_8/CoTe_2$ -C (10 mA cm $^{-2}$  @ 209 mV) (Figure S21, Supporting Information). To get an insight into the HER performance of the  $\rm Co_9S_8/CoTe_2$  heterostructure, the Tafel analysis, EIS, and  $\rm C_{dl}$  measurements were performed.

The obtained Tafel slope values suggest the faster HER kinetics for the Co<sub>o</sub>S<sub>o</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure (108 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) compared to  $Co_9S_8$  (141 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ) and  $CoTe_2$  (258 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ) (Figure 4c). The charge transfer resistance was found to be lower for the  $Co_9S_8/CoTe_2$  heterostructure ( $\approx 5.4 \Omega$ ) in comparison to  $Co_9S_8$ ( $\approx$ 12.9 Ω) and CoTe<sub>2</sub> ( $\approx$ 23.6 Ω), suggesting the superior HER activity of the Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure (Figure 4d). In addition, the higher  $C_{\rm dl}$  value of 19.7 mF cm<sup>-2</sup> for  $Co_9S_8/CoTe_2$ heterostructure against the 12.7 and 2.4 mF cm<sup>-2</sup> for Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub> and CoTe2, respectively, backing the superior electrochemical HER activity of Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure (Figure S22, Supporting Information). CP was used to study the electrocatalytic robustness of the Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure for HER. The CP curve shows that the HER performance of the  $Co_9S_8/CoTe_2$ heterostructure is stable for 48 h (Figure S24, Supporting Information).

Normalization with surface area is considered as one of the ways to determine intrinsic activity. There are two major methods: the first one is Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) surface area normalized activity, and the other one is ECSA normalized activity. However, due to some discrepancies and reproducibility issues of these methods, these cannot be recommended for use as an essential activity parameter and intrinsic activity measurement. In some recent literature, the mass-normalized LSV is recommended to provide the specific and intrinsic activity of the electrocatalysts. [66-68] After referring to some recent protocols of intrinsic activity determination, the intrinsic activity of electrocatalysts has been determined with the help of mass-normalized LSV curves. As shown in Figure S25a-d (Supporting Information), the specific activity calculated from mass-normalized LSV curves and the corresponding bar diagram suggests that the Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub> heterostructure has better intrinsic activity compared to the Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub> and CoTe<sub>2</sub> counterparts for both HzOR and

Furthermore, to understand the effects of heterostructure formation on electrochemical performance of  $\text{Co}_9\text{S}_8/\text{CoTe}_2$  heterostructure, we studied the band energy profile of pure phase  $\text{Co}_9\text{S}_8$  and  $\text{CoTe}_2$  and their heterojunction using ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy (UPS), Mott-Schottky analysis, and diffuse reflectance spectroscopy (DRS). As shown in **Figure 5a**,b the  $\text{E}_{\text{cutoff}}$  (secondary electron cut-off energy) for  $\text{Co}_9\text{S}_8$  and  $\text{CoTe}_2$  is 16.50 and 16.65 eV, respectively. The work function ( $\phi$ ) has been calculated using the formula  $\phi = 21.22 - \text{E}_{\text{cutoff}}$ . The calculated work function ( $\phi$ ) values for  $\text{Co}_9\text{S}_8$  and  $\text{CoTe}_2$  are 4.72 and 4.57 eV, respectively.

Mott-Schottky (M-S) analysis of  $Co_9S_8$  and  $CoTe_2$  shows a positive slope in the M-S plot, suggesting the n-type

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**Figure 4.** a) LSV curves of different catalysts for HER. b) Bar diagram displaying the HER performance of different catalysts after HER preconditioning. c) Tafel plot showing the calculated slope of different catalysts for HER. d) Nyquist plot for EIS measurement of different catalysts for HER.

semiconductor behavior of both materials. The flat-band potential (Efb) for Co9S8 and CoTe2 is found to be −0.07 and −0.30 V, respectively (Figure [5c,d\)](#page-9-0). Furthermore, Figure S26 (Supporting Information) shows a shift in flat-band potential (Efb) after the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure formation, suggesting that the heterogenic interaction of the Co9S8 and CoTe2 phase causes the downward bending of energy bands. This helped us to calculate the position of the conduction band (Ec) as the n-type of semiconductors is ≈0.2 V lower than the Ef. The Ec for the Co9S8 and CoTe2 is −0.27 and −0.50 V, respectively.

Using DRS spectra the direct bandgap (Eg) values of Co9S8 and CoTe2 have been calculated to be 1.25 and 1.63 eV, respectively (Figure [5e,f\)](#page-9-0). The valance band (Ev) positions for Co9S8 (0.98 V) and CoTe2 (1.13 V) have been determined using the formula, Ev = Eg – Ec. The band energy profile of Co9S8 and CoTe2 corroborates the existence of an n-n type heterojunction between these two phases. It leads to the spontaneous transfer of electrons from the CoTe2 phase, having a lower work function, to Co9S8, having a higher work function, until the fermi energy levels reach equilibrium (**Figure 6**[a\)](#page-10-0).[\[46\]](#page-13-0) This ultimately leads to the construction of a built-in electric field, which is known to facilitate faster charge transfer and increment in electrochemical efficiency.[\[56–61\]](#page-13-0) Hence, improved the electrochemical kinetics and performance of Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure for HzOR and HER.

For the practical application of HzOR-assisted hydrogen production, an OHzWS cell was fabricated using Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure as a bifunctional (HzOR, HER) catalyst for both anode and cathode. The OHzWS cell performance of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> @ 0.22 V and 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> @ 0.71 V were obtained compared to the values observed for overall water splitting (OWS) cell (10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> @ 1.82 V) constructed using Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure as a bifunctional (OER, HER) catalyst for both anode and cathode (Figure [6b\)](#page-10-0). The durability test of OHzWS cell performance was performed using cyclic stability. The LSV curves of cyclic stability of the OHzWS cell show stability up to 3500 cycles. With the increase in cycles (up to 1500 cycles), there is a decrease in the OHzWS performance, which is associated with the hydrazine consumption as the reaction proceeds. We performed further cycling (up to 3500 cycles) with fresh electrolyte to verify the decrease in hydrazine concentration. After changing the electrolyte, the OHzWS cell performance was

<span id="page-9-0"></span>Figure 5. UPS spectra of pure  $Co_9S_8$  (a) and  $CoTe_2$  (b) for work function. Mott-Schottky analysis of  $Co_9S_8$  (c) and  $CoTe_2$  (d). DRS spectra for  $Co_9S_8$  (e) and  $CoTe_2$  (f).

regained from the 1501st cycle. These observations corroborate that the decrease in activity is due to hydrazine consumption during electrolysis. Moreover, the activity trend after changing electrolyte is similar up to 3500 cycles, which has been observed for the first 1500 cycles (Figure S27, Supporting Information). Further, for high current density applications of OHzWS cell, we have performed a 15 h CP measurement of Co<sub>9</sub>S<sub>8</sub>/CoTe<sub>2</sub>  $\| Co_0 S_8 / CoTe_2 \|$  heterostructure couple at 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. In the initial 5 h, to attain a current density of 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, the potential requirements of heterostructure couple rise from 0.71 to 0.85 V (≈140 mV). As aforementioned, the decrease in electrochemical performance could be due to the consumption of hydrazine. To reaffirm this, the CP measurement was repeated by changing the electrolyte twice after every 5-h cycle. With the fresh electrolyte, the  $Co_9S_8/CoTe_2 \parallel Co_9S_8/CoTe_2$  heterostructure couple regained its electrochemical activity, and a similar trend in potential requirement rise was observed with a  $\approx$ 132 mV increase in potential requirement for the next 5 h. After 10 h, we again introduced fresh electrolytes, the activity once again regained, and there was a ≈135 mV increase in potential requirement for the next 5 h (Figure 6c). This verifies the excellent durability of  $Co_9S_8/CoTe_2 \parallel Co_9S_8/CoTe_2$  heterostructure couple for OHzWS application, and the decrement in electrochemical performance is attributed to the consumption of hydrazine. The comparison table clearly corroborates that the  $Co_9S_8/CoTe_2 \parallel Co_9S_8/CoTe_2$  heterostructure couple can efficiently perform OHzWS at high current density with great durability compared to most recently reported chalcogenidebased bifunctional electrocatalysts (Table S3, Supporting Information).

#### 2.7.5. Computational Studies

The hydrazine oxidation reaction has been computationally simulated for the systems studied in the experiments: the CoTe $_2$  and Co $_9S_8$  surfaces and their Co $_9S_8$ /CoTe $_2$  heterostructure interface. The two energy profiles are overlayed in Figure 7a for effective comparison. The [1 1 1] plane of CoTe $_2$  (blue) and the [4 4 0] plane of Co $_9S_8$  (pink) have been considered for the binding of hydrazine and its successively oxidized species. Figure 7a shows the free energy profiles of HzOR on the CoTe $_2$  (blue) and Co $_9S_8$  (pink) surfaces as a function of the reaction coordinate, and the profile labels are shown in the inset. Optimized geometries in the vicinity of the active site of binding are depicted for each species in the reaction pathway. The experiments have been performed in high pH conditions. The following equations have been employed for the free energy calculations in alkaline media:

$$N_2H_4 + * \rightarrow * N_2H_4 \dots \dots \dots$$
 (1)

$$* N_2H_4 + OH^- \rightarrow * N_2H_3 + H_2O + e^-$$
 (2)

$$*N_2H_3 + OH^- \rightarrow *N_2H_2 + H_2O + e^-$$
 (3)

$$*N_2H_2 + OH^- \rightarrow *N_2H_1 + H_2O + e^-$$
 (4)

$$* N_2H_1 + OH^- \rightarrow *N_2 + H_2O + e^- \dots$$
 (5)

$$* N_2 \to N_2 + * \dots$$
 (6)

where \* represents an adsorbed species.

<span id="page-10-0"></span>**Figure 6.** a) Energy band diagrams of Co9S8 and CoTe2 before and after n-n heterojunction contact. The Evac. Ef, Ec, Ev, and Φ represent potentials of vacuum level, Fermi level, conduction band, valence band, and work function of the materials. b) Comparison of OHzWS and OWS for heterostructure couple Co9S8/CoTe2 ǀǀ Co9S8/CoTe2. c) Chronopotentiometry test of Co9S8/CoTe2 ǀǀ Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure couple for OHzWS.

It can be seen from Figure [7a](#page-11-0) that for both materials, the maximum stabilization is during the adsorption of hydrogen on the surface. As hydrogen is successively removed from hydrazine the steps are associated with an energy increase up to \*N2H1. After the last hydrogen is abstracted, there is a lowering of free energy associated with N2 binding to the surface. For nearly all the steps in the HzOR, the energy profile of Co9S8 lies lower than the one for CoTe2, indicating the favorable catalysis by Co9S8 as compared to CoTe2. These results suggest that the Co9S8 phase is the predominant active site for the HzOR. Once it was established that the Co9S8 surface was more favorable and aligned with experimental findings, the study was furthered to examine the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure interface. An interface of the [1 1 1] plane of CoTe2 and the [4 4 0] plane of Co9S8 have been employed

<span id="page-11-0"></span>**Figure 7.** a) Reaction pathways and corresponding energy changes of HzOR on the two surfaces. The free energy profiles of HzOR on the CoTe2 (blue) and Co9S8 (pink) surfaces as a function of the reaction coordinate. The profile labels are shown in the inset. Optimized geometries focussed on the active site of binding are provided along the reaction pathway for both surfaces. b) Reaction pathways and corresponding energy changes of HzOR on the two surfaces. The free energy profiles of HzOR on the Co9S8 (pink) and Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure (green) surfaces as a function of the reaction coordinate. The profile labels are shown in the inset. Optimized geometries focussed on the active site of binding are provided along the reaction pathway for both surfaces.

to create the heterostructure interface, as these are the most active planes in the respective materials. Figure 7b shows the reaction pathway and associated energies for the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure interface (green) in comparison with Co9S8 (pink). The geometries of the reacting species as hydrazine is oxidized at each step are shown in the inset. The Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure is compared with Co9S8, which is the energetically favorable catalyst compared to CoTe2. Except for the first adsorption step in all the other steps in the mechanism, the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure bound species have lower energy compared to when they bind with Co9S8. Though the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure interface shows lowered energies, predicting better catalytic activity, it also displays moderate adsorption and desorption energies that are comparable to the individual materials. This would mean that the adsorption and desorption from the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure interface are reversible and hence realizable at the conditions of the experiments. In effect, the catalyst can be available for multiple cycles.

# *2.7.6. Post-Catalysis Characterization*

The phase and structural durability of the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure catalyst was assessed by performing the postcatalysis studies. The PXRD patterns after HzOR and HER were found to be similar to precatalytic Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure and suggest retention of coexisting Co9S8 and CoTe2 phases in the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure during catalysis. In addition to coexisting Co9S8 and CoTe2 phases, the appearance of a peak at 2∼38° suggests slight surface transformation to Co(OH)2 (ICDD-741057) (Figure S28, Supporting Information). The SEM images after HER and HzOR show similar morphology as precatalytic Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure along with smaller agglomeration of particles after catalysis (Figure S29, Supporting Information). Furthermore, careful analysis of chemical states after prolonged HzOR shows some minor changes in the chemical states. In the Co 2p Spectrum, the intensity of metallic cobalt peaks is decreased, and there is an increase in the peak area of Co<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> as compared to Co<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> and a broadening of satellite peaks. The S 2p spectrum shows a decrease in the peak intensity of S 2p3/2 and S 2p1/2, While there is an increase in the peak intensity of S-O species. In addition, the Te 3d XPS shows a broadening of the spectrum. These minor changes can be attributed to the change in the coordination environment that occurred due to slight surface transformation during catalysis (Figure S30 and Table S4, Supporting Information). Moreover, the XPS analysis after prolonged HER also shows some minor changes in a chemical state similar to changes after HzOR (Figure S30 and Table S4, Supporting Information). The post-catalysis studies corroborate the excellent structural stability and slight surface transformation of Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure to Co(OH)2.

# **3. Conclusion**

In conclusion, a telluride-based Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure bifunctional catalyst with efficient OHzWS is reported for the first time. The heterogenic interface formation and coexistence of phases have been confirmed by structural analyses of catalysts. The Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure required a low voltage of 125 and 142 mV to attain 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for HzOR and HER, respectively. In addition, the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure required a low voltage to attain a high current density (0.34 V @ 500 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2). Moreover, the OHzWS cell performance is stable up to 3500 continuous cycles and requires a low cell voltage of 0.22 V to drive 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. Additionally, the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure can efficiently perform OHzWS at a high current density of 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and with a long-term endurance of 15 h. The structural investigation reveals formation of an nn heterojunction interface between Co9S8 and CoTe2 phases results in the construction of built-in electric field, which triggers the HER and HzOR reaction kinetics and improves the electrochemical performance. Moreover, DFT has been used to model

<span id="page-12-0"></span>the experimental findings. The computational results indicated the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure to be the most favorable for electrochemical HzOR reaction, followed by Co9S8 and then CoTe2. The trend corroborates with the experimental trends observed in the study. Though the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure shows a lower free energy, the adsorption, and desorption are achievable under the conditions of the study. Both these parameters as well as the experimental results on the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure, indicate its viability as a catalyst for HzOR. In addition, the HzOR and OHzWS performance of Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure and its couple is better as compared to most of the recently reported chalcogenide-based bifunctional catalysts. Experimental results suggest that the optimized interfacial coupling between Co9S8 and CoTe2 phases is the key to superior activity Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure than the individual Co9S8 and CoTe2 phases. Therefore, the results mentioned above strongly suggest that the Co9S8/CoTe2 heterostructure is a promising bifunctional electrocatalyst for HzOR and HER, which can be used

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

for energy-efficient hydrogen generation via the OHzWS system.

# **Acknowledgements**

The authors acknowledge SERB (CRG/2022/005010) for funding and IISER Kolkata for instrumental facilities. V.M., A.E.P., and D.R. thank UGC and DST-Inspire, respectively, for their fellowships. The authors also acknowledge SAIF-IITB for the TEM facility. V.M. thanks A. Roy, Dr. G. Tudu, Dr. H.R. Inta, Dr. Ayan Mondal, Dr. KHVSR Murthy, Dr. A. Mitra, and K.S. Paliwal for their helpful suggestions. A special thanks to S. Chhetri and J. John P. for help in DRS measurement.

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

# **Keywords**

cobalt sulfides, cobalt tellurides, heterostructure, hydrazine oxidation reaction, hydrogen production, n-n heterojunction

> Received: December 18, 2024 Revised: January 17, 2025 Published online: January 26, 2025

- [1] B. You, Y. Sun, *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2018**, *51*, 1571.
- [2] Z. Abdin, A. Zafaranloo, A. Rafiee, W. Mérida, W. Lipinski, K. R. ´ Khalilpour, *Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev.* **2020**, *120*, 109620.

- [3] R. Kothari, D. Buddhi, R. L. Sawhney, *Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev.* **2008**, *12*, 553.
- [4] J. Song, C. Wei, Z. F. Huang, C. Liu, L. Zeng, X. Wang, Z. J. Xu, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2020**, *49*, 2196.
- [5] J. Luo, J. H. Im, M. T. Mayer, M. Schreier, M. K. Nazeeruddin, N. G. Park, S. D. Tilley, H. J. Fan, M. Grätzel, *Science* **2014**, *345*, 1593.
- [6] Y. Li, X. Wei, L. Chen, J. Shi, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 19550.
- [7] A. Badreldin, E. Youssef, A. Djire, A. Abdala, A. Abdel-Wahab, *Cell Rep. Phys. Sci.* **2023**, *4*, 101427.
- [8] S. Ghosh, J. N. Hausmann, L. Reith, G. Vijaykumar, J. Schmidt, K. Laun, S. Berendts, I. Zebger, M. Driess, P. W. Menezes, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2024**, *14*, 1.
- [9] X. F. Lu, S. L. Zhang, W. L. Sim, S. Gao, X. W. Lou, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 22885.
- [10] J. T. Ren, L. Chen, H. Y. Wang, W. W. Tian, Z. Y. Yuan, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2023**, *17*, 49.
- [11] H. Liu, Y. Liu, M. Li, X. Liu, J. Luo, *Mater. Today Adv.* **2020**, *7*, 100083.
- [12] Y. Tong, P. Chen, *Inorg. Chem. Front.* **2024**, *11*, 6218.
- [13] M. Zhou, Z. Yu, G. Yu, R. Fu, S. Wang, W. Yang, X. Liao, Y. Zhao, Z. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *2415058*, 1.
- [14] Q. Liu, X. Tan, X. Liao, J. Lv, X. Li, Z. Chen, Y. Yang, A. Wu, Y. Zhao, H. B. Wu, *Small* **2024**, *20*, 1.
- [15] G. Feng, Y. Pan, D. Su, D. Xia, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 1.
- [16] C. Feng, M. Lv, J. Shao, H. Wu, W. Zhou, S. Qi, C. Deng, X. Chai, H. Yang, Q. Hu, C. He, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 1.
- [17] X. Wang, H. Hu, X. Yan, Z. Zhang, M. Yang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, 1.
- [18] H. Yan, S. Guo, X. Yang, Y. Liu, Z. Wang, Q. Chen, *New J. Chem.* **2024**, *48*, 11925.
- [19] Y. Xu, B. Zhang, *ChemElectroChem* **2019**, *6*, 3214.
- [20] J. Huang, Y. Jiang, T. An, M. Cao, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, 25465.
- [21] Z. Chen, W. Wei, L. Song, B. J. Ni, *Sustain. Horizons* **2022**, *1*, 100002.
- [22] J. Sun, C. Liu, W. Kong, J. Liu, L. Ma, S. Li, Y. Xu, *J. Mater. Sci. Technol.* **2022**, *110*, 161.
- [23] Y. Dong, P. Wang, J. Y. Zhang, W. Song, Y. Chen, F. Wang, Y. Liu, C. Zhu, W. Li, *Sustain. Energy Fuels* **2022**, *7*, 84.
- [24] A. Sengeni, S. Noda, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2024**, *12*, 5793.
- [25] X. Ren, Y. Tong, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2024**, *49*, 489.
- [26] V. Mishra, A. E. Praveen, A. Mondal, V. Mahalingam, *ACS Appl. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *6*, 3977.
- [27] R. Guo, L. Gao, M. Ma, T. Hu, *Electrochim. Acta* **2022**, *403*, 139567.
- [28] L. Zhou, M. Shao, C. Zhang, J. Zhao, S. He, D. Rao, M. Wei, D. G. Evans, X. L. Duan Zhou, M. F. Shao, C. Zhang, S. He, D. M. Rao, M. Wei, D. G. Evans, X. Duan, J. W. Zhao, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1604080.
- [29] X. Liu, J. He, S. Zhao, Y. Liu, Z. Zhao, J. Luo, G. Hu, X. Sun, Y. Ding, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *91*, 1.
- [30] Z. Feng, E. Wang, S. Huang, J. Liu, *Nanoscale* **2020**, *12*, 4426.
- [31] K. Akbar, J. H. Jeon, M. Kim, J. Jeong, Y. Yi, S. H. Chun, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2018**, *6*, 7735.
- [32] J. Y. Zhang, X. Tian, T. He, S. Zaman, M. Miao, Y. Yan, K. Qi, Z. Dong, H. Liu, B. Y. Xia, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 15653.
- [33] J. S. Samdani, J. Sanetuntikul, S. Shanmugam, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2022**, *47*, 27347.
- [34] J. Wang, X. Ma, T. Liu, D. Liu, S. Hao, G. Du, R. Kong, A. M. Asiri, X. Sun, *Mater. Today Energy* **2017**, *3*, 9.
- [35] A. E. Praveen, V. Mishra, S. Ganguli, A. Chandrasekar, V. Mahalingam, *Inorg. Chem.* **2023**, *62*, 16149.
- [36] G. Liu, Z. Sun, X. Zhang, H. Wang, G. Wang, X. Wu, H. Zhang, H. Zhao, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 19201.
- [37] Y. Li, Y. Zhao, F. M. Li, Z. Dang, P. Gao, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2021**, *13*, 34457.
- [38] X. Ma, J. Wang, D. Liu, R. Kong, S. Hao, G. Du, A. M. Asiri, X. Sun, *New J. Chem.* **2017**, *41*, 4754.

- <span id="page-13-0"></span>[39] J. Y. Zhang, H. Wang, Y. Tian, Y. Yan, Q. Xue, T. He, H. Liu, C. Wang, Y. Chen, B. Y. Xia, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 7649.
- [40] X. Chia, Z. Sofer, J. Luxa, M. Pumera, *Chem. A Eur. J.* **2017**, *23*, 11719.
- [41] T. H. Lu, C. J. Chen, M. Basu, C. G. Ma, R. S. Liu, *Chem. Commun.* **2015**, *51*, 17012.
- [42] Y. Qi, J. Wu, J. Xu, H. Gao, Z. Du, B. Liu, L. Liu, D. Xiong, *Inorg. Chem. Front.* **2020**, *7*, 2523.
- [43] T. H. Lu, C. J. Chen, Y. R. Lu, C. L. Dong, R. S. Liu, *J. Phys. Chem. C* **2016**, *120*, 28093.
- [44] D. Zheng, L. Yu, W. Liu, X. Dai, X. Niu, W. Fu, W. Shi, F. Wu, X. Cao, *Cell Reports Phys. Sci.* **2021**, *2*, 100443.
- [45] Z. Li, M. Hu, P. Wang, J. Liu, J. Yao, C. Li, *Coord. Chem. Rev.* **2021**, *439*, 213953.
- [46] S. Pal, T. Ahmed, S. Khatun, P. Roy, *ACS Appl. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *6*, 7737.
- [47] X. Cheng, Y. Tong, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2023**, *11*, 3219.
- [48] X. Tang, J. Y. Zhang, B. Mei, X. Zhang, Y. Liu, J. Wang, W. Li, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2021**, *404*, 126529.
- [49] X. Wang, Y. He, X. Han, J. Zhao, L. Li, J. Zhang, C. Zhong, Y. Deng, W. Hu, *Nano Res.* **2022**, *15*, 1246.
- [50] R. Guo, L. Gao, M. Ma, T. Hu, *Electrochim. Acta* **2022**, *403*, 139567.
- [51] H. Wang, J. Xu, Q. Zhang, S. Hu, W. Zhou, H. Liu, X. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2112362.
- [52] J. Suntivich, K. J. May, H. A. Gasteiger, J. B. Goodenough, Y. Shao-Horn, *Science* **2011**, *334*, 1383.
- [53] X. Wang, X. Huang, W. Gao, Y. Tang, P. Jiang, K. Lan, R. Yang, B. Wang, R. Li, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2018**, *6*, 3684.
- [54] G. Huang, Z. Xiao, R. Chen, S. Wang, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2018**, *6*, 15954.

- [55] Z. Xiao, C. Xie, Y. Wang, R. Chen, S. Wang, *J. Energy Chem.* **2020**, *53*, 208.
- [56] Z. H. Xue, H. Su, Q. Y. Yu, B. Zhang, H. H. Wang, X. H. Li, J. S. Chen, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2017**, *7*, 1.
- [57] H. J. Liu, N. Yu, X. Q. Yuan, H. Y. Zhao, X. Y. Zhang, Y. M. Chai, B. Dong, *Nano Res.* **2023**, *16*, 5929.
- [58] L. Jin, H. Xu, K. Wang, L. Yang, Y. Liu, X. Qian, G. He, H. Chen, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2024**, *657*, 159777.
- [59] Y. Huang, X. Zhang, L. Li, M. Humayun, H. Zhang, X. Xu, S. P. Anthony, Z. Chen, J. Zeng, D. V. Shtansky, K. Huo, H. Song, C. Wang, W. Zhang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *2401011*, 1.
- [60] X. Yu, B. Gao, B. Feng, Y. Peng, X. Jin, G. Ni, J. Peng, M. Yao, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2023**, *48*, 16184.
- [61] S. Chen, C. Wang, S. Liu, M. Huang, J. Lu, P. Xu, H. Tong, L. Hu, Q. Chen, *J. Phys. Chem. Lett.* **2021**, *12*, 4849.
- [62] H. Zhang, J. Wang, Q. Cheng, P. Saha, H. Jiang, *Green Energy Environ.* **2020**, *5*, 492.
- [63] M. Nath, U. De Silva, H. Singh, M. Perkins, W. P. R. Liyanage, S. Umapathi, S. Chakravarty, J. Masud, *ACS Appl. Energy Mater.* **2021**, *4*, 8158.
- [64] C. Li, Y. Liu, Z. Zhuo, H. Ju, D. Li, Y. Guo, X. Wu, H. Li, T. Zhai, C. C. Li, Y. W. Liu, D. Li, Y. P. Guo, H. Q. Li, T. Y. Zhai, Z. W. Zhuo, X. J. Wu, H. X. Ju, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1801775.
- [65] Y. Yoon, B. Yan, Y. Surendranath, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 2397.
- [66] S. Anantharaj, S. R. Ede, K. Karthick, S. Sam Sankar, K. Sangeetha, P. E. Karthik, S. Kundu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2018**, *11*, 744.
- [67] C. Wei, R. R. Rao, J. Peng, B. Huang, I. E. L. Stephens, M. Risch, Z. J. Xu, Y. Shao-Horn, *Adv. Mater.* **2019**, *31*, 1.
- [68] S. Anantharaj, S. Kundu, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2019**, *4*, 1260.