---
source: Park 等 - 2025 - Cocktail Effect of 4 d 5 d Band Twisted High‐Entropy Alloys on Carbon Nanotube for Hy.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 80.516s
generated: 2026-01-10T07:54:39.462833Z
---

# **Cocktail Effect of 4***d***/5***d* **Band Twisted High-Entropy Alloys on Carbon Nanotube for Hydrazine Splitting**

*Chae Eun Park, Jayaraman Theerthagiri, Velusamy Maheskumar, Anuj Kumar, Gyoung Hwa Jeong, and Myong Yong Choi\**

**Herein, multi-walled carbon nanotubes (CNT) embedded with RuPdIr-PtAu-high entropy alloys (HEA) via pulsed laser irradiation in liquids are successfully fabricated. The resultant composite synergistically enhances hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR)-boosted water electrolysis. Notably, HEA with ≈2–5 nm size, are uniformly distributed across the surface of the CNTs. An optimized HEA/CNT-10 demonstrates exceptional performance in oxygen and hydrogen evolution reactions (OER and HER), depicted by ultralow overpotentials of 30.7 and 330 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, respectively. By replacing OER with HzOR, HEA/CNT-10 needs a lower potential of 0.1 V to accomplish 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, as compared to OER (1.56 V vs. RHE). Moreover, the hydrazine splitting electrolyzer desirable a small voltage of 0.242 V to attain 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, while maintaining exceptional stability. Experimental and DFT studies validate the cocktail effects and role of multiple metal-sites in HEA/CNT-10, which significantly enhance the efficiency of parallel HER||HzOR processes, highlighting its potential in energy-efficient, hydrogen production. In situ Raman probe indicated the configuration of an acidic environment, monitoring of H3O<sup>+</sup>, during HER, despite the basic conditions. This is attributed to the dominance of the Heyrovsky step, facilitated by the high catalytic activity of the HEA, coupled with protonation of the CNT surface.**

# **1. Introduction**

Electrochemical overall water splitting (OWS, 2H2O + energy → 2H2 + O2) is considered a feasible and ecologically

C. E. Park, J. Theerthagiri, V. Maheskumar, M. Y. Choi Department of Chemistry (BK21 FOUR) Research Institute of Natural Sciences Gyeongsang National University Jinju 52828, Republic of Korea E-mail: [mychoi@gnu.ac.kr](mailto:mychoi@gnu.ac.kr)

A. Kumar

Nano-Technology Research Laboratory Department of Chemistry GLA University Mathura, UP 281406, India G. H. Jeong, M. Y. Choi Core-Facility Center for Photochemistry & Nanomaterials Gyeongsang National University Jinju 52828, Republic of Korea

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202410304>

**DOI: 10.1002/smll.202410304**

sustainable way to produce high-purity H2, and it can use electricity produced through renewable energy like wind or solar power.[\[1–5\]](#page-12-0) OWS is based on coupled two half-reactions, such as the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and oxygen evolution reaction (OER).[\[6–8\]](#page-12-0) However, the sluggish anodic OER, which requires a surprisingly high overpotential, significantly limits the overall efficiency of OWS. To address this challenge, substituting the OER with smallmolecule electrooxidation reactions, such as hydrazine (N2H4), alcohols, methanol, urea, or 5-hydroxymethylfurfural, offers a promising pathway for energy-efficient hydrogen production.[\[9–15\]](#page-12-0) Among these, the N2H4 oxidation reaction (HzOR) has gained much focus as of its less thermodynamic potential (−0.33 V vs RHE), carbon-free nature, environmental friendliness, and much safer than the mixture of H2 and O2 in a traditional OWS.[\[16–18\]](#page-12-0) Consequently, the development of bifunctional electrocatalysts with superior performance for cathodic HER and anodic HzOR has attracted much interest in the research community.[\[19–21\]](#page-12-0)

High-entropy alloys (HEAs) refer to a single crystalline phase that typically contains five or more elements and has a specific configurational entropy.[\[22–24\]](#page-12-0) HEAs have recently attracted considerable attention in energy technologies owing to their unrivaled benefits, such as excellent physicochemical characteristics, hardness, and toughness, as well as strong corrosion resistance changes in the field of electrocatalytic activity. Precious metals such as Au, Pt, Pd, Ir, Ru, Ag, Rh, and Os are well-known for their stability and high catalytic performance, making them the subject of extensive research in the fields of energy and catalysis. However, not all catalysts that are electrochemically active demonstrate high HER activity. For example, Pt, Ru, and Ir are recognized for their superior HER performance, whereas Au, Ag, and Os are inactive in HER. Meanwhile, Pd and Rh excel in alcohol oxidation reactions. Therefore, materials with diverse catalytic functionalities can be strategically combined into HEAs, enabling unique and enhanced catalytic properties through synergistic interactions among multiple elements and their intricate atomic configurations. HEAs offer tailored properties, including optimized electronic structures and large surface areas, which are characterized by numerous defects and grain boundaries serving as active sites for hydrogen intermediates.[\[25,26\]](#page-12-0) The main

advantage of the HEAs is that they have four key intrinsic effects, involving the cocktail, high-entropy effect, sluggish diffusion, and lattice distortion, which can considerably improve electrocatalytic activity and stability.[\[27,28\]](#page-12-0) A limited number of HEAs have been recently studied for the electrooxidation reaction. For example, Zuo et al. established PdCuMoNiCo HEAs on a carbon hybrid with admirable bifunctional catalytic activity for O2 reduction reaction and HCOOH oxidation.[\[29\]](#page-12-0) They reported that Pd is the active site for the electrocatalytic activity and other elements are cocatalysts, while the strain effect enhanced the catalytic efficiency. In addition, Fan et al. examined the electrooxidation activity of CoNiCuMnMo HEAs in the glycerol oxidation reaction (GOR) with high selectivity and small overpotential to produce formate owing to the electronic structure modulation and synergistic effects of the catalyst.[\[30\]](#page-12-0) Additionally, they combined anodic GOR with HEAs for alkaline and cathodic HER for an acid flow electrolytic device voltage of 0.55 V to reach 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. However, the HzOR performance of HEAs has rarely been investigated until now; Kumar et al. thoroughly studied AgAuPt-PdCu HEAs for nitrogen and oxygen gaseous products derived from the HzOR and OER contributions. The aforementioned discoveries illuminate that the unique assets of HEAs are ideal for electrooxidation reactions.

However, consistently and efficiently preparing nanostructured HEAs is a challenging task. Recently, traditional techniques have been widely used in HEA preparation, such as carbothermal shock, arc melting, solvothermal, ball milling, and aerosol spray pyrolysis.[\[31–35\]](#page-12-0) However, these techniques are challenging processes that produce nanoparticles (NPs) with a large average size and erratic morphologies in limited outputs. Therefore, it is crucial to establish a commonly appropriate and simply executed technique to prepare shape-controlled HEA electrocatalysts. Recently, pulsed laser irradiation in liquids (PLIL) has been frequently utilized for producing HEAs owing to the advantages over conventional techniques in terms of eco-friendliness, simplicity, fast processing, no additional surfactant required, no byproduct formation and morphology, uniform size and shape of the resultant NPs.[\[36–39\]](#page-12-0) PLIL provides several controllable experimental parameters, including wavelength, reaction time, laser power, and wavelength.[\[40,41\]](#page-13-0) PLIL for material preparation has additional benefits, including no external purification and electrostatic stability; furthermore, during laser irradiation, solvents are decomposed with a reaction mixture, producing diverse solvated electrons, free radicals, etc., in which produced H• radicals can serve as potent reductants in the metal solution, breaking down the metal salt into resulting metal NPs.[\[42,43\]](#page-13-0) However, very few investigations have been reported on the PLIL method of HEAs for electrocatalytic activity. Therefore, the abovementioned findings clarify that the size, morphology, and synthesis technique of HEAs may enable strong electrocatalytic activity.

Herein, we designed RuPdIrPtAu HEAs on the multiwalled carbon nanotube (CNT) surface for their electrocatalytic trifunctional performance in HER, OER, and HzOR. A simple and rapid synthesis process was employed using PLIL to deposit HEA electrocatalysts on the CNT surface, establishing a single-phase fcc HEA structure. By utilizing rapid laser irradiation, HEA NPs can be grown with a small size (≈2–5 nm), resulting in many metal active sites and surface areas. Furthermore, from the real-time in situ monitoring of Raman probe and DFT calculations, the catalytic function and active phase at the electrolyte–electrode interface were predicted during the electrocatalytic reactions.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

#### **2.1. Component Control and Structural Analyses of HEA/CNTs**

**Figure 1**[a](#page-2-0) illustrates the synthesis process of RuPdIrPtAu HEAs on the surface of CNT. In this process, salts of the selected metals (Ru, Pd, Ir, Pt, and Au) were initially adsorbed randomly onto the pre-treated CNT surface. Subsequently PLIL treatment was applied under the following conditions: a wavelength of 532 nm, a pulse duration of 10 ns, and an energy input of 180 mJ. This treatment facilitated the formation of HEAs uniformly distributed on the CNT surface. The duration of the PLIL process was varied systematically at 5, 10, and 15 minutes to optimize the synthesis. The resulting uniform dispersion of HEAs on the CNT surface was confirmed through high-resolution imaging (Figure S1, Supporting Information). To evaluate the role of PLIL in the synthesis of HEAs, a comparative thermochemical process was conducted under identical conditions but in the absence of laser irradiation. Structural analyses using XRD, TEM, and ICP revealed that the desired HEA was not successfully formed under these non-irradiated conditions (Figure S2, Supporting Information). These findings underscore the critical importance of PLIL treatment in achieving the successful synthesis of RuPdIrPtAu HEAs on CNTs. All the analyses were performed using the instrument at the Core-Facility Center for Photochemistry and Nanomaterials, Gyeongsang National University.

Interestingly, a single phase of HEA was not observed in powder XRD analysis when the same molar amount of Ru, as with other metals, was used (Figure S3, Supporting Information). This outcome is attributed to the reduction reaction rate of Ru salt, which generally favors the hcp structure and is faster than the reduction rates of other metals utilized in catalyst synthesis.[\[44\]](#page-13-0) Therefore, in the case of simultaneous reduction, it is highly unlikely to form an alloy stoichiometrically.[\[45\]](#page-13-0) However, in the context of nanoscale particle production, "high entropy" typically denotes the maintenance of a molar ratio of atoms within 5–30 at%, while preserving a single phase. We increased the amount of Ru salt as a way to control the reducing power of Ru salt. As a result, a HEA with one fcc phase was observed in the XRD analysis (Figure [1b\)](#page-2-0). Notably, HEA/CNT-10 sample distinctly displayed three peaks at 40.8°, 47.4°, and 69.1°, which resemble to the (111), (200), and (220) plane of the fcc structure, correspondingly.[\[46–48\]](#page-13-0) Besides, the Raman spectra of the HCltreated CNT, HEA/CNT-5, HEA/CNT-10, and HEA/CNT-15 are shown in Figure [1c.](#page-2-0) Figure [1c](#page-2-0) shows three peaks of a typical multi-walled CNT at ∼1343, 1586, and 2680 cm<sup>−</sup>1, signifying the D, G, and 2D bands, correspondingly. The G band raised because of the *sp*<sup>2</sup> carbon, while the D-band resembles to the disorderinduced band of the defective graphitic structure.[\[49–51\]](#page-13-0) The ID/IG ratio consistently exceeds 1 in all samples, reflecting the use of HCl-treated CNTs. Specifically, the ID/IG ratios for HEA/CNT-5, HEA/CNT-10, and HEA/CNT-15 were recorded at 1.25, 1.15, and 0.97, respectively. Notably, there is a decreasing trend in the ID/IG ratio with increased laser irradiation time, diverging from observations in graphene composites and other carbon-based materials. This anomaly is likely due to surface deformations of the

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) Schematic for the synthesis process for HEA/CNT using PLIL, b, c) XRD and Raman spectra, respectively, of CNT, HEA/CNT-5, HEA/CNT-10, and HEA/CNT-15 corresponding to varying durations of laser irradiation, d) STEM and elemental mapping of HEA/CNT-10, and e) HR-TEM pictures of HEA/CNT-10 with HEA lattice distance is 2.63 Å (scale bar: ≈2 nm).

<span id="page-3-0"></span>Figure 2. XPS spectra of HEA/CNT-10; a) survey, b) core-spectra Ru 3p, c) Pd 3d, d) Ir 4f, e) Pt 4f, f) Au 4f, g) C 1s, and h) O 1s.

CNTs caused by instantaneous energy exposure from the laser during the distribution of metal atoms on the CNT surface for HEA particle synthesis. Supporting this, recent studies by Fang et al. have demonstrated that plasma treatment can significantly alter the surface properties of CNTs.<sup>[52]</sup> CNTs are preferred over GO for the deposition of HEA electrocatalysts due to their robust mechanical strength, high electrical conductivity, and chemical inertness. They provide a durable framework for anchoring HEA NPs, ensuring efficient charge transfer and long-term stability. Furthermore, CNTs, with their extensive surface area and adaptable properties, enhance the exposure of active sites and can be customized for specific catalytic applications, thereby offering superior performance compared to GO in various electrochemical processes.

Figure S4(a-c) (Supporting Information) display the HR-TEM pictures of the HEA/CNT-5, HEA/CNT-10, and HEA/CNT-15 samples. It can be observed that HEA with ≈2 nm size is consistently distributed on the CNT surface, which is supported by the peak distribution in XRD. The HAADF-STEM image further confirms the presence of ≈2 nm HEA nanoparticles on the CNT surface. EDS mapping of an optimal HEA/CNT-10, revealed in Figure 1d, validates the existence of Ir, Au, Pd, Pt, and Ru elements, providing conclusive evidence for the formation of HEAs. In addition, the measured *d*-spacing of 2.63 Å resembles to the (111) phases of HEA (Figure 1e). Additional EDS measurements, detailed in Figures S5 and S6, confirm the presence of HEA in HEA/CNT-5 and HEA/CNT-15 and reveal some aggregation of RuPdIrPtAu HEA NPs on CNTs, likely due to strong interatomic interactions among the noble metal constituents. Furthermore, surface diffusion and van der Waals forces may contribute to this clustering. ICP-OES results show that the elemental distribution within these high-entropy materials ranges from 7% to 30%, as detailed in Table S1 (Supporting Information).

XPS was engaged to analyze the composition of HEA/CNTs, as illustrated in **Figure 2**; Figures S7, and S8 (Supporting Information). The spectra were normalized using the C 1s signal at a binding energy (BE) of  $\approx$ 284.5 eV, which serves as a reference for all peak fittings and corresponds to the  $sp^2$  C—C bond observed

at 284.51 eV.[43] The XPS survey spectrum of HEA/CNT-10 confirms the existence of Ru, Pd, Pt, Ir, and Au elements (Figure 2a). Notably, the Ru 3p spectrum (Figure 2b) exhibits peaks for metallic Ru at 485.18 eV and 461.91, which resemble to Ru<sup>0</sup>  $3p_{1/2}$  and Ru<sup>0</sup> 3p<sub>3/2</sub>, correspondingly.<sup>[53]</sup> Despite selection of this spectral region to minimize interference from overlapping Ru 3d with C 1s spectra, the Ru 3p spectra exhibit low intensity due to the reduced sensitivity of XPS for detecting Ru 3p compared to Ru 3d. The Pd 3d spectra of HEA consist of four spin-orbit doublets: Pd<sup>0</sup>  $3d_{5/2}$  (334.82 eV), Pd<sup>2+</sup>  $3d_{5/2}$  (337.74 eV), Pd<sup>0</sup>  $3d_{3/2}$ (340.33 eV), and Pd<sup>2+</sup>  $3d_{3/2}$  (342.94 eV), as depicted in Figure 2c. Similar trends are observed for HEA/CNT-5 and HEA/CNT-15 in Figures \$7,\$8 (Supporting Information). [38,53] The Ir 4f spectrum in Figure 2d features two signals at BEs of 60.09 and 63.16 eV, representing  $Ir^0 4f_{7/2}$  and  $Ir^0 4f_{5/2}$ , while peaks at 61.60 and 64.74 eV are allotted to  $Ir^{4+}$   $4f_{7/2}$  and  $Ir^{4+}$   $4f_{5/2}$ , correspondingly. [54,55] The Pt 4f spectrum, separated into six peaks in Figure 2e, includes Pt<sup>0</sup>  $4f_{7/2}$  and Pt<sup>0</sup>  $4f_{5/2}$  at 70.99 and 74.82 eV, Pt<sup>2+</sup>  $4f_{7/2}$  and Pt<sup>2+</sup>  $4f_{5/2}$  at 72.45 and 74.93 eV, Pt<sup>4+</sup>  $4f_{7/2}$  and Pt<sup>4+</sup>  $4f_{5/2}$  at 73.55 and 75.81 eV, respectively. [43] Peaks at 84.65 and 88.24 eV in Figure 2f are accredited to Au<sup>0</sup>  $4f_{7/2}$  and Au<sup>0</sup>  $4f_{5/2}$ , respectively.<sup>[56]</sup> The C 1s spectrum (Figure 2g) comprises peaks at 283.7, 284.49, 286.25, 286.60, and 288.49 eV, reliable with C-C, C=C, C-O, C-OH, and C=O bonds. The peak at 282.60 eV is associated with metal, indicating C-metal interaction and confirming the attachment of HEA to the CNT surface. The O 1s peaks at 530.32 and 531.53 eV in Figure 2h are ascribed to O—C and —OH bonds from surface adsorbed H<sub>2</sub>O molecules, respectively.

#### 2.2. Electrochemical HER Performance

The electrochemical function of the HEA/CNT materials was inspected for HER in a 1.0 M KOH. **Figure 3a** displays the polarization plots of the HEA/CNT catalysts for the HER performance recorded at 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. HEA/CNT-10 demonstrated superior electrocatalytic function with an ultralow overpotential ( $\eta$ ) of 30.7 mV to attain 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> than HEA/CNT-5 (144 mV) and

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** The HER performance of various catalysts, including Pt/C, CNT, HEA/CNT-5, HEA/CNT-10, and HEA/CNT-15 in 1.0 M KOH. a) LSV curves, b) at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, c) Tafel slopes, d) TOF analysis, e) MAs, f) Nyquist graphs, g) ∆*J*/2 versus scan rate graph, h) HER stability test of HEA/CNT-10 at -0.03 V versus RHE over 10 h, and i) Schematic representation of the HER process.

HEA/CNT-15 (56 mV). A commercial 20 wt% Pt/C displays an of 49 mV@10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (Figure 3b; Figure S9, Supporting Information). Thus, the enhanced HER of the optimal HEA/CNT-10 can be ascribed to the "cocktail effect" by the evenly distributed elements in HEA and the positive synergy between HEA and CNT. The cocktail effect in HEAs refers to the collective enhancement of properties arising from the incorporation of multiple elements in nearly equal proportions. In electrochemical catalysis, this effect contributes to superior activity by offering a diverse range of active metal sites, improving adsorption, charge transfer kinetics, and reaction pathways. Predominantly, the outstanding HER performance of HEA/CNT-10 challenges the previously published electrocatalyst (Table S2, Supporting Information). The Tafel slope (TS) delivers evidence about the HERkinetics of the samples, which resulted from the LSV curves. As revealed in Figure 3c, TS of the HEA/CNT-10 was 71.0 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1, which was smaller than that of HEA/CNT-5 (99.9 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) and HEA/CNT-15 min (81.9 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), indicating the enhanced HER of HEA/CNT-10. Notably, the TS of HEA/CNT-10 reveals that the HER mechanism implies the Volmer–Heyrovsky process.

Based on the previous experimental and theoretical studies, the HER pathway on the HEA/CNT catalyst in 1.0 M KOH can be assessed using the obtained Tafel slope values (Equations (1)– (3)).[\[57,58\]](#page-13-0)

$$H_2O + e^- \rightarrow H_{ads}$$
 (\*H)  
+OH<sup>-</sup> (Volmer or  $H_2O$  dissociation, 120 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) (1)

$$H_2O + e^- + H_{ads} \rightarrow OH^-$$
  
+ $H_2$  (Heyrovsky or electrochemical process, 40 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) (2)

$$H_{ads} + H_{ads} \rightarrow H_2$$
 (Tafel orchemical desorption, 30 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>)(3)

The above-mentioned HER reaction phenomena are influenced by the intrinsic surface and electronic structure of the HEA/CNT. The initial and prevalent step in the reaction is the Volmer process, during which water molecules dissociate, and H

SMQ

16136829, 2025, 29, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202410304 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07]01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed to the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed to the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed to the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed to the applicable Creative Commons Licenseque (https://o

atoms ( $H_{ads}$  or \*H) adsorb onto catalytic surface sites. The  $H_2$  evolution can subsequently proceed via either the Volmer-Heyrovsky or the Volmer-Tafel pathway. As indicated by the Tafel slope values in Figure 3c, the HER on the HEA/CNT catalyst predominantly follows the Volmer-Heyrovsky pathway.

The intrinsic electrocatalytic activity of HEA/CNT catalysts was estimated from the mass activity (MA) and turn over frequency (TOF) to better understand the HER kinetics. The estimated TOF at various  $\eta$  values in HER is displayed in Figure 3d and Figure \$10 (Supporting Information). The HEA/CNT-10 exhibits a higher TOF of 0.59 s<sup>-1</sup> at  $\eta = 0.04$  V related with other two samples. Additionally, MA is an important signal for the practical use of the electrocatalyst, which is determined by normalizing the catalyst mass loading, and the attained results are represented in Figure 3e and Figure S11 (Supporting Information). The MA value of HEA/CNT-10 driven with  $\eta = 0.08$  V is 19.53 mA g<sup>-1</sup>, the highest MA compared to the other two samples. The EIS and ECSA values were also investigated to support the HER kinetics. Impedance data were characterized using Nyquist plots obtained from electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) measurements, with the fitted data shown in Figure 3f. The resultant equivalent circuit model, depicted in Figure \$12 (Supporting Information), follows the structure  $R_1 + Q_2/R_2 + R_3/Q_3$ , where Q and R represent the constant phase elements (CPE) and resistors, respectively. The fitted parameters from the Nyquist plot are summarized in Table S3 (Supporting Information). The estimated  $R_{ct}$  value of HEA/CNT-10 (5.8  $\Omega$ ) was significantly lower than those of pure CNT (447.7  $\Omega$ ), HEA/CNT-5 (10.9  $\Omega$ ), HEA/CNT-15 (8.7  $\Omega$ ), and Pt/C (6.8  $\Omega$ ) (Figure S13, Supporting Information). This indicates rapid charge transfer and excellent electrical conductivity in the optimally formulated HEA/CNT-10 catalyst for HER. Additionally, electrochemical active surface area (ECSA) was examined to estimate the amount of exposed active sites, which can directly correlate with the electrocatalytic performance. The ECSA was obtained from  $C_{dl}$  in the nonFaradaic area of CV profiles recorded ranging from 10 to 100 mV s<sup>-1</sup> (Figure S14, Supporting Information). As exhibited in Figure 3g, the calculated  $C_{\rm dl}$  values are 7.10, 11.06, 23.36, and 16.87 mF cm<sup>-2</sup> for CNT, HEA/CNT-5, HEA/CNT-10, and HEA/CNT-15, respectively. This data suggests that HEA/CNT-10 has a higher ECSA, indicating more active sites for enhanced HER performance compared to other samples (Figure \$15, Supporting Information). The HEA/CNT-10 electrocatalyst underwent various electrochemical characterizations, all confirming its superior performance as an optimal HER catalyst. Notably, HEA/CNT-10 exhibited the maximum *j* among all catalysts, even after ECSA normalization, underscoring that it enhanced HER is not solely attributed to improved surface area (Figure \$16, Supporting Information). The evaluation of electrocatalysts relies on their stability, a crucial criterion. Stabilization of configurational entropy or high-entropy ( $\Delta S$ ) is crucial in HEAs. According to the  $\Delta S$  values, materials containing five or more elements are sorted into categories: low-entropy ( $\Delta S \leq 0.7R$ ), medium-entropy ( $0.7R \leq \Delta S$  $\leq$  1.5R), and HEAs ( $\Delta$ S  $\geq$  1.5R.<sup>[59]</sup> The entropy change is determined by the formula  $\Delta S = -R \sum_{i=1}^{n} x i \ln(xi)$ , where  $x_i$  signifies the molar fraction of the  $i^{th}$  element and R is the gas constant. Calculated values confirm the HEA/CNT-10 has highest  $\Delta$ S (1.438R) as high-entropy stabilization compared with HEA/CNT-5, and HEA/CNT-15 (Figure S17, Supporting Information). Further, to ensure the electrocatalytic stability of the HEA/CNT-10, the chronoamperometry test was performed at 10 mA cm $^{-2}$  for 10 h (Figure 3h). The original current density was slightly degraded after 10 h of continuous  $\rm H_2$  production. Thus, the chronoamperometry test in HER demonstrated high HER stability of the HEA/CNT-10 catalyst, further indicating that HEA/CNT-10 is a potential electrocatalyst for sustainable hydrogen fuel generation. The probable HER process is displayed in Figure 3i.

The post-electrochemical HER stability of the HEA/CNT-10 was assessed using XPS to confirm its structural stability and durability. XPS survey spectra (Figure \$18, Supporting Information) post-testing reveal the presence of all metal elements—Ru, Pd, Ir, Pt, and Au—consistent with the pre-testing spectra of the RuPdIrPtAu HEA catalyst (Figure 2a). Additionally, a prominent F 1s signal, originating from the Nafion solution used as a binder to coat the HEA/CNT-10 on the CC substrate, was observed after the stability test. Consequently, the metal peaks appear diminished compared to those in the bare HEA/CNT-10. Notably, the initial XPS spectra displayed a low intensity for the Ru 3p peak in HEA/CNT-10, likely due to overlap with the C 1s spectra. However, following the electrochemical HER, an increase in the Ru 3p peak intensity was observed. This increase can be attributed to surface restructuring at the atomic level during the HER, where the adsorption and desorption of reactants and intermediates potentially expose more Ru atoms on the surface, thereby amplifying the Ru 3p peak intensity. This hypothesis is further supported by in situ Raman probe, which indicates the construction of Ru\*-O intermediates during the HER process.

#### 2.3. Electrocatalytic OER and HzOR Performance

The electrocatalytic function of the HEA/CNT was further studied for OER by the same electrochemical monitoring system with 1.0 M KOH as the HER process described above. Figure 4a displays the OER curves for the HEA/CNT catalysts. As displayed in Figure 4b, HEA/CNT-10 exhibited higher OER with an  $\eta$  of 330 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, much lower than other samples, such as CNT (558 mV), HEA/CNT-5 (420 mV), and HEA/CNT-15 (410 mV). Meanwhile, the  $\eta$  of the up-to-date IrO<sub>2</sub> catalyst is greater than that of the HEA/CNT-10. A comparative analysis of the OER activity of HEA/CNT-10 with various HEA electrocatalysts in an alkaline medium is summarized in Table S2 (Supporting Information). Moreover, further investigation into the reaction kinetics of the electrocatalyst was obtained from the TS, which commonly results from the LSV curves. Figure 4c and Figure S19 (Supporting Information) displays that HEA/CNT-10 achieved a smaller TS of 91.11 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, which has clear benefits over the TS of  $IrO_2$  (91.44 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ), CNT (265.39 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ), HEA/CNT-5 (112.59 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), and HEA/CNT-15 (96.79 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) electrocatalysts. The MA and TOF are among the most crucial factors to be considered for examining the OER kinetics. Figure 4d,e show that HEA/CNT exhibited different TOF and MA values at various  $\eta$  values. The TOF and MA of the HEA/CNT-10 for OER were superior to those of the other catalytic materials (Figures \$20 and \$21, Supporting Information). EIS was conducted to investigate the electric conductivity and  $R_{ct}$ . HEA/CNT-10 revealed the lowest  $R_{\rm ct}$  of 4.87  $\Omega$ , related to CNT (36.02  $\Omega$ ), HEA/CNT-5 (9.12  $\Omega$ ), and HEA/CNT-15 (5.22  $\Omega$ ), indicating

www.small-journal.com

16136289, 2025, 29, Downloaded from https://onlinelthray.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/sml1.202410304 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA archies are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-6-0"></span>Figure 4. The OER performance of various catalysts, including IrO2, CNT, HEA/CNT-5, HEA/CNT-10, and HEA/CNT-15 in 1.0 M KOH. a) LSV curves, b)  $\eta$  at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, c) Tafel slopes, d) TOF, e) MAs, f) Fitted Nyquist impedance plots, g)  $C_{dl}$  values calculated from  $\Delta J/2$  versus scan rates, h) Stability test of HEA/CNT-10 over 10 h, and i) Schematic illustration of the OER process.

superior charge transfer efficiency in OER (Figure 4f). Notably, the  $R_{ct}$  value for the IrO<sub>2</sub> catalyst was lower than that of HEA/CNT-10. Comprehensive data from these measurements are listed in Table S4 (Supporting Information) and Figure S22 (Supporting Information). As exposed in Figure \$23 (Supporting Information), the CV plots of the CNT and HEA/CNT samples in the potential from 1.22 to 1.27 V vs. RHE were used to assess  $C_{\rm dl}$ for OER catalytic properties. The  $C_{\rm dl}$  values of CNT, HEA/CNT-5, HEA/CNT-10, and HEA/CNT-15 were estimated to be 1.42, 4.95, 7.06, and 5.23 mF cm<sup>-2</sup> (Figure 4g), correspondingly. A high  $C_{\rm dl}$ value for the HEA/CNT-10 electrocatalyst indicates a large ESCA, meaning many active sites promote the electrocatalytic activity of OER (Figure S24, Supporting Information). [52] Furthermore, ECSA-normalized OER polarization curves reveal the higher catalytic action of HEA/CNT-10 related to all other synthesized electrocatalysts (Figure S25, Supporting Information). The long-term stability of HEA/CNT-10 for OER was analyzed using chronoamperometry measurements for 10 h (Figure 4h). The performance of the HEA/CNT-10 remained stable upon continuous electrolysis at  $10~\text{mA}~\text{cm}^{-2}$ . Figure 4i graphically represents the OER process in 1.0 M KOH.

Because of the unfavorable anodic  $\eta$  of HEA/CNT-10 (330) mV@10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>), it will utilize considerable electric current to act as the anode for OWS. In comparison, the HzOR process is a perfect anodic substitute as of its incredibly low theoretical potential of -0.33 V versus RHE, which can reduce the cell voltage of OWS. For instance, we assessed the catalytic action of the materials for HzOR. Figure 5a shows the electrocatalytic HzOR activity of CNT, HEA/CNT-5, HEA/CNT-10, HEA/CNT-15, and commercial Pt/C in 1.0 M KOH/0.5 M N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub>. The CNT sample exhibits a very low anodic current density, while the limited activity of commercial Pt/C for HzOR is attributed to the strong adsorption of hydrazine intermediates, which block active sites and hinder reaction kinetics. The η values of HEA/CNT-5, HEA/CNT-10, and HEA/CNT-15 can provide 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at 710, 428, and 520 mV, correspondingly. The HEA/CNT-10 sample exhibit an excellent HzOR performance compared to the HEA/CNT-5 and HEA/CNT-15 (Figure 5b; Figure S26, Supporting Information).

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 5.** The HzOR performance of CNT, HEA/CNT-5, HEA/CNT-10, and HEA/CNT-15 in 1.0 M KOH with 0.5 M N2H4; a) LSV plots, b) at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, c) the polarization curves of HEA/CNT-10 in 1.0 M KOH with diverse N2H4 concentrations, d) Tafel slopes, e) fitted Nyquist impedance plots, f) the polarization curves of HEA/CNT-10 in 1.0 M KOH and with or without 0.5 M N2H4, g) an comparison of OER and HzOR for HEA/CNT-10, h) the long-term chronoamperometric durability test of HEA/CNT-10 for HzOR, i) schematic of the HzOR process, (j) The electrocatalytic activity of OWS and OHzS using HEA/CNT-10, (k) cyclic stability test of HEA/CNT-10 for OHzS by replacing the electrolyte every 10 h for 5 cycles, and (1) the schematic illustration of the two-electrode configuration using HEA/CNT-10 as both the cathode and anode for OHzS.

Figure 5c shows the LSV curves of HEA/CNT-10 for HzOR in 1.0 M KOH at varying concentrations of N2H4. The current density increased substantially with N2H4 concentrations from 0.1 to 0.5 M due to the increased availability of N2H4 molecules. However, at concentrations of N2H4 exceeding 0.5 M, the current density plateaued or slightly declined, likely due to mass transport limitations, saturation of the catalyst surface, or catalyst poisoning by reaction intermediates or byproducts. Thus, 0.5 M N2H4 was identified as the optimal concentration for HzOR and OHzS. The TS of HEA/CNT-10 (40.38 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) is much smaller than that of CNT (454.62 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), HEA/CNT-5 (160.39 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), and HEA/CNT-15 (82.89 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), indicating a higher HzOR kinetics of HEA/CNT-10 (Figure 5d). The electron transfer activities among the electrode and electrolyte were evaluated using

<span id="page-8-0"></span>the EIS spectra, as shown in Figure [5e.](#page-7-0) Among the tested materials, HEA/CNT-10 demonstrated the lowest *R*ct of 6.07 Ω, compared to CNT (436.73 Ω), HEA/CNT-5 (18.47 Ω), and HEA/CNT-15 (7.01 Ω) (Figure S27, Supporting Information). This finding further substantiates the excellent electrochemical HzOR kinetics of HEA/CNT-10. Comprehensive data from these measurements are compiled in Table S5. Impressively, the LSV profiles comparison for OER and HzOR of the HEA/CNT-10 shows apparent kinetic benefits of HzOR electrolysis (Figure [5f\)](#page-7-0). Only working potentials of 99, 153, 198, 243, and 285 mV (vs RHE) are needed to attain consistent 10, 20, 30, 40, and 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, respectively. In contrast, OER requires greater values of 1566, 1617, 1661, 1702, and 1741 mV (vs RHE) (Figure [5g\)](#page-7-0), demonstrating the benefits of substituting OER with the HzOR in the OWS electrolyzer. In evaluating electrocatalysts for HzOR, longterm stability represents an additional factor in assessing their electrochemical performance. The stability of HEA/CNT-10 for HzOR was evaluated using long-term chronoamperometry measurement at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for 10 h (Figure [5h\)](#page-7-0). Moreover, the schematic of the HzOR process is illustrated in Figure [5i.](#page-7-0) Based on a report by Li et al.,[\[60\]](#page-13-0) N2H4 is electro-oxidized into N2 through the following six elementary steps (Equations (4)—(9)).

$$M + N_2 H_4 \rightarrow M - N_2 H_4$$
 (4)

$$M-*N_2H_4 \rightarrow M-*N_2H_3 + e^- + H^+$$
 (5)

$$M^{-*}N_2H_3 \to M^{-*}N_2H_2 + e^- + H^+$$
 (6)

$$M^{-*}N_2H_2 \rightarrow M^{-*}N_2H + e^- + H^+$$
 (7)

$$M^{-*}N_2H \rightarrow M^{-*}N_2 + e^- + H^+$$
 (8)

$$M-^*N_2 \to M+N_2 \tag{9}$$

where M is the reactive catalytic surface sites of HEA/CNT, and \*N2, \*N2H, \*N2H2, \*N2H3 and \*N2H4, are the chemisorbed intermediate species on the surface of M during HzOR. Steps 6 and 9 involve the adsorption and desorption of N2H4 and N2, respectively. Each step from Equations (4) to (8) generates one electron one e<sup>−</sup> and one H<sup>+</sup>. The overall reaction is summarized as N2H4 + OH<sup>−</sup> → N2 + 4H2O + 4e<sup>−</sup>. The superior HER, OER, and HzOR activities observed in the optimal HEA/CNT-10 compared to HEA/CNT-5 and HEA/CNT-15 are likely attributable to the effective adsorption of \*H, \*OH, \*N2H4 on its surface. This is supported by zeta potential measurement (Figure S28, Supporting Information), where the value of HEA/CNT-10 (−30.8 mV) exceeds those of HEA/CNT-5 (−25.2 mV) and HEA/CNT-15 (−28.3 mV). The more negatively charged surface of HEA/CNT-10 facilitates adsorption, enhancing reaction efficacy with the catalyst surface.[\[61\]](#page-13-0)

#### **2.4. Electrochemical Performance of HzOR-Assisted OWS**

Considering the remarkable performance and exceptional stabilities of the HEA/CNT-10 sample for HER and HzOR, we moved forward with HEA/CNT-10 to practically apply a two-electrode configuration electrolyzer. A two-electrode cell was constructed with HEA/CNT-10 as an electrocatalyst for the anode and cathode with OHzS in 1.0 M KOH/0.5 M N2H4. OWS was also evaluated using HEA/CNT-10 in 1.0 M KOH to associate the thermodynamic benefits of OHzS. The LSV plots of OWS and OHzS are exposed in Figure [5j;](#page-7-0) the apparent negative shift in the OHzS curve signifies the enormous energy-saving advantage of employing HzOR-coupled hydrogen generation. Specifically, to reach 10 and 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, the device voltage required for OHzS was 0.24 and 0.62 V, much lower than the voltage of 1.66 and 2.03 V essential for OWS, respectively (Figure S29, Supporting Information). Notably, the stability test of the HEA/CNT-10 electrode for the OHzS system was tested using the chronoamperometry measurements at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. As depicted in Figure [5k,](#page-7-0) the electrode maintained remarkable cyclic stability, with the electrolyte replaced every 10 h over 5 cycles. HEA/CNT-10 demonstrated consistent performance over 50 h with negligible variation in current density, confirming its exceptional durability under operational conditions. The actual image of the N2 and H2 evolution during the OHzS system is displayed in Figure S30 and Video S1 (Supporting Information). In contrast, Figure [5l](#page-7-0) displays the schematic sketch of the two-electrode electrolysis system and its operating principles for HER and HzOR. Additionally, to quantify the hydrogen gas produced at the cathode, gas samples collected and analyzed by gas chromatography throughout the OHzS process. The volumes of gas collected at various reaction times are shown in Figure S31 (Supporting Information). Over the course of the 60-minute OHzS process, the yield of hydrogen gas was determined to be 497.13 μmol, corresponding to a calculated Faradaic efficiency of 53.3%.

To gain deeper insights into the degradation of N2H4 during OHzS, experiments were conducted at a higher current density of 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for 20 h. Before evaluating N2H4 decomposition, a calibration curve was established using known N2H4 concentrations (0.01, 0.05, 0.1, 0.25, and 0.5 M) for quantitative analysis via UV–vis spectroscopy (Figure S32, Supporting Information). During continuous OHzS electrolysis using the HEA/CNT-10||HEA/CNT-10 configuration at a constant *j* of 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for 20 h, the UV-vis absorbance spectra of electrolyte samples were recorded every 5 h to monitor N2H4 degradation, as shown in Figure S33 (Supporting Information). As illustrated in Figure S34 (Supporting Information), the initial N2H4 concentration of 0.5 M decreased gradually, reaching 0.05 M after 20 h. These findings indicate the necessity of maintaining N2H4 concentration for stable H2 production. Therefore, industrial-scale H2 generation should be implemented in a flow system to ensure continuous replenishment of N2H4 and sustain high efficiency.

#### **2.5. Real-Time In Situ Monitoring Raman Spectroscopy for HER and HzOR**

An in situ electrochemical Raman probe was employed to observe surface chemical changes during HER and HzOR reactions. This technique enables the simultaneous monitoring of electrochemical parameters and Raman spectra, providing real-time insights into catalyst behavior under operando conditions. Raman spectroscopy, with its surface sensitivity and chemical specificity, is instrumental in unveiling reaction intermediates and surface species, thereby aiding in the elucidation of reaction mechanisms and identification of active sites. Moreover, its non-destructive

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**Figure 6.** In situ electrochemical Raman spectroscopy performed on HEA/CNT-10 during a–d) HER and e–g) HzOR processes.

nature allows for repeated measurements, offering a dynamic view of the evolution of catalyst performance. By correlating Raman data with electrochemical activity, we can establish crucial links between the structure, composition, and performance of catalysts, thereby guiding the rational strategy of more effective catalysts. The interfacial phase activity of HEA/CNT-10 during HER was investigated at regulated from 0 to −0.11 V versus RHE in 1.0 M KOH (**Figure 6**a–c). A photograph of the in situ Raman setup is presented in Figure S35 (Supporting Information). Notably, despite the alkaline conditions, H3O<sup>+</sup> intermediate species and H2O signals were faintly detected at ≈1616 and 1583 cm<sup>−</sup>1, correspondingly. Previously, the presence of H3O<sup>+</sup> intermediates in an alkaline medium (pH = 13) was only reported on ill-defined Pt sites in conventional Pt/C. In our system, this phenomenon is attributed to active protonation on the CNT surface. Additionally, the enhanced HER activity of HEA/CNT-10 is believed to depend on the extensive availability of metallic, active surfaces for hydrogen adsorption. This was also corrobotated by the Tafel slope and HER reaction steps (Heyrovsky– Tafel step: \*Hads + H3O<sup>+</sup> → intermediate species + e<sup>−</sup>, 30–40 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1).[\[62,63\]](#page-13-0) Overall, the active protonation of the CNT surface during HER and the combination of adsorption reactions, such **[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-journal.com](http://www.small-journal.com)**

16136829, 2025, 29, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smll.202410304 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

as H and OH, on the HEA surface, contribute to its excellent performance. Predominantly, Ru and Pt metals are involved in these reactions, as shown in Figure [6d.](#page-9-0) Further analysis of data from Table S6 (Supporting Information) indicates that the ID/IG ratios fluctuate irregularly with varying applied HER potentials. However, these variations appear to have minimal or negligible impact on the HER process.

Furthermore, the in situ Raman probe was utilized to elucidate the mechanism of HEA/CNT-10 surface activity during HzOR. Figure [6e,f](#page-9-0) show the real-time Raman spectra within a potential range of 0.95 –1.13 V in 1.0 M KOH/0.002 M N2H4. Upon adding 0.002 M N2H4 into the 1.0 M KOH electrolyte, three weak N2H4 related peaks emerged at 953, 1080, and 2334 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> in Figure [6e,f.](#page-9-0) These signals are ascribed to the N–H and N–N stretching modes in adsorbed NH2NH2, N–H bending modes of the NH2 intermediate, and N2 on the HEA/CNT-10 surface, respectively. The peak intensity of Pd–N at 999 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> gradually increased with rising potential, suggesting that N2H4 oxidation actively forms metal–N bonds.[\[64,65\]](#page-13-0) The existence of the Pd–N peak at 999 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> indicates that Pd is a highly active component among the metals constituting the HEA (Figure [6g\)](#page-9-0). Thus, the in situ Raman results strongly suggest that the HzOR mechanistic pathway progresses through the successive six elementary steps as described in the equations [4–9:](#page-8-0) M + N2H4 → M-\*N2H4 → M-\*N2H2 → M-\*N2H2 → M-\*N2H → M-\*N2 → M + N2.

#### **2.6. DFT Validation of Mechanistic Insights for the HER and HzOR**

DFT study was conducted to understand the remarkable performance of HEA/CNT-10 in HER and HzOR and to clarify the mechanistic pathway of HEA/CNT in the OHzS system for energy-saving H2 production. The HEA/CNT structure model was constructed based on the elemental distribution ratios and coordination environments of all elements observed in experiments. The successful incorporation of HEA elements (Ru, Pd, Ir, Pt, and Au) onto the CNT in an energetically stable configuration is demonstrated in the top and side views of the HEA/CNT structural model derived from DFT, as illustrated in **Figure 7**[a.](#page-11-0) For comparison, the structural models of the bare HEA and CNT are also provided in Figures S36 and S37 (Supporting Information) to facilitate a clearer understanding. The charge transfer in the HEA/CNT catalysts is analyzed through band structure and charge density difference calculations. The band structure of the HEA/CNT heterostructure, shown in Figure S38a (Supporting Information), reveals significant shifts in the electronic structure compared to the individual HEA and CNT components (Figure S38b,c, Supporting Information). These shifts are strongly correlated with the redistribution of electron density, as depicted in the charge density difference plots (Figure [7b;](#page-11-0) Figure S39, Supporting Information). The hybridization among the metal *d*-orbitals of the HEA and the -electrons of the CNT results in localized charge redistribution at the interface, enhancing electronic coupling and charge transfer, which are vital for electrocatalytic HER and HzOR applications.

In Figure [7c,](#page-11-0) the density of state (DOS) for HEA/CNT is depicted. The DOS of HEA/CNT is observed close to the Fermi level (EF), suggesting a metallic behavior in its electrical conductivity due to the combined effect of HEA and CNT. Furthermore, the HEA/CNT catalyst shows a wider DOS in comparison to both the pure HEA and CNT catalyst (Figure S40, Supporting Information), demonstrating its increased electrical conductivity. The enhanced conductivity speeds up the transfer of charge between the electrode and electrolyte interfaces, leading to faster kinetics of HER and HzOR.[\[66,67\]](#page-13-0) The PDOS reveals the hybridization of Pd 4*d*, Ru 4*d*, Pt 5*d*, Ir 5*d*, and Au 5*d* orbitals, along with the C *p*orbitals, contributing to the total DOS of the HEA/CNT near the Fermi level (Figure S41, Supporting Information). This 4*d*/5*d* orbital mixing enhances the interfacial electric field between the HEA and CNT, thereby reducing the electron migration distance by providing additional charge transfer pathways. The ΔGH\* were calculated for five catalytic sites of the HEA to examine how different metal sites influence hydrogen adsorption (Figure [7d\)](#page-11-0). The atomic structure of the RuPdIrPtAu HEA during H\* adsorption on Pt sites is shown in the inset of Figure [7d.](#page-11-0) The DFT results indicate that Pt sites exhibit the most favorable ΔGH\* of −0.12 eV, compared to Pd (-0.18 eV), Ru (-0.31 eV), Ir (-0.45 eV), and Au (-0.49 eV), suggesting a stronger stabilization of H\* at Pt sites and enhancing overall electrocatalytic efficiency for water and hydrazine splitting.

Similarly, the HEA/CNT catalyst was investigated to identify potential active metal sites by analyzing N2H4 adsorption and the kinetics of each dehydrogenation step. Figure [7e](#page-11-0) outlines the stepwise HzOR process on HEA/CNT, highlighting the formation and progression of intermediates (\*N2H4, \*N2H3, \*N2H2, \*N2H, and \*N2). N2H4 adsorption onto the active metal sites is thermodynamically favorable, with the initial dehydrogenation steps from \*N2H4 to \*N2H3 being energetically downhill and exothermic.[\[68\]](#page-13-0) Typically, a downhill process is exothermic and spontaneous, releasing energy, while an uphill process is endothermic and non-spontaneous, requiring energy input. The energy profile across various metal sites indicates that the Pd site on HEA/CNT has the lowest energy barrier (0.63 eV) for the dehydrogenation step from \*N2H3 to \*N2H2, compared to Pt (0.77 eV), Au (0.86 eV), Ru (1.13 eV), and Ir (1.28 eV) sites. Therefore, the conversion of \*N2H3 to \*N2H2 is recognized as the rate-limiting step in the HzOR process. The subsequent dehydrogenation of \*N2H2 to \*N2H is also uphill at all metal sites, followed by the favorable dissociation of \*N2H to \*N2. These findings suggest that Pd sites are the most effective in promoting HzOR, consistent with in situ Raman analysis. Additionally, Figure [7f](#page-11-0) presents the atomic configuration of the RuPdIrPtAu HEA/CNT during the adsorption and dehydrogenation of N2H4 to N2 on Pd sites, providing further insight into the HzOR mechanism. Both experimental and DFT results demonstrate that the HEA/CNT catalyst significantly enhances electrocatalytic performance for HER and HzOR.

## **3. Conculsion**

In conclusion, we developed a straightforward and effective approach to produce single-phased fcc RuAuPtPdIr HEA NPdecorated CNT via a PLIL method with three laser irradiation times. The fabricated HEA/CNT electrocatalysts performed excellently in trifunctional electrocatalytic HER, OER, and HzOR activities. Pulsed energy output efficiently decreases the size of NPs while uniformly dispersing them on the CNT surface.

<span id="page-11-0"></span>**Figure 7.** a) The top and side-views of the HEA/CNT optimized structural model, b) charge density difference across the top-view of HEA/CNT catalyst, c) total DOS of the HEA/CNT, d) ΔGH\* plots on different catalytic sites of the RuPdIrPtAu HEA surface, e) reaction free energy profile for HzOR on diverse catalytic sites of the RuPdIrPtAu HEA, f) stepwise reaction pathway involved during HzOR on HEA/CNT.

Various analytical characterizations and DFT studies were performed to confirm the coordination among the CNT and HEAs. The influence of HEA loading on the PLIL time was examined, and the HEA/CNT-10 sample exhibited a noticeable enhancement in electrochemical performance with exceptional stability. Under KOH and N2H4 electrolyte conditions, the HEA/CNT-10 electrocatalyst demonstrated a low of 0.1 V versus RHE @ 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, a TS of 40.38 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1, notable OHzS performance with a low device voltage of 0.24 V and good stability. This work offers a dependable, cost-effective technique for synthesizing HEAs, expanding the scope of its application to energy and electrocatalysis.

## **4. Experimental Section**

*Synthesis of HEA/CNT*: Initially, commercially purchased multiwalled CNTs were treated with 7.0 M HCl, cleaned with H2O and dried at 95 °C for 24 h. Then, CNTs (1.0 mg) were dispersed in 5 mL of dimethylformamide (DMF) to attain a solution form. In a typical synthesis, equimolar (10 mM) concentrations of RuCl3·*x*H2O, IrCl3·*x*H2O, HAuCl4·3H2O, K2PdCl4, and

<span id="page-12-0"></span>K2PtCl4 were employed. Thus, the metal solutions (Ir, Au, Pd, and Pt salts 100 μL and Ru salt 200 μL) were consistently added to the CNT solution. The resultant solution mixture was placed in the laser beam path. During PLI (Surelite II-10, 532 nm, 180 mJ cm<sup>−</sup>2, 10 Hz, and 10 ns), the solution was constantly stirred using a magnetic bar, and the solution slowly turned into dark reddish-black color. The hybrids with different laser irradiation times of 5, 10, and 15 min were denoted by HEA/CNT-5, HEA/CNT-10, and HEA/CNT-15, respectively. After that, the obtained HEA/CNTs were collected via centrifugation at 14000 rpm for 5 min, followed by washing with ethanol to remove impurities. Finally, HEA/CNTs were dried at ambient atmosphere for overnight.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

C.E.P., J.T. and V.M. contributed equally to this work. This research was supported by Korea Basic Science Institute (National research Facilities and Equipment Center) grant funded by the Ministry of Education. (No. 2019R1A6C1010042). The authors acknowledge the financial support from National Research Foundation of Korea (NRF) (2022R1A2C2010686, 2022R1A4A3033528, and RS-2024-00405324).

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

## **Keywords**

carbon nanotube, density functional theory, high-entropy materials, hydrazine oxidation reaction, pulsed laser irradiation in liquids, real-time monitoring Raman spectroscopy

> Received: November 1, 2024 Revised: December 24, 2024 Published online: January 5, 2025

- [1] Z. W. Seh, J. Kibsgaard, C. F. Dickens, I. Chorkendorff, J. K. Nørskov, T. F. Jaramillo, *Science* **2017**, *355*, eaad4998.
- [2] M. Tavakkoli, T. Kallio, O. Reynaud, A. G. Nasibulin, C. Johans, J. Sainio, H. Jiang, E. I. Kauppinen, K. Laasonen, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2015**, *54*, 4535.
- [3] V. R. S., S. Kandaiah, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, 2052.
- [4] Y. Jeong, S. Shankar Naik, Y. Yu, J. Theerthagiri, S. J. Lee, P. L. Show, H. C. Choi, M. Y. Choi, *J. Mater. Sci. Technol.* **2023**, *143*, 20.
- [5] W. Li, N. Jiang, B. Hu, X. Liu, F. Song, G. Han, T. J. Jordan, T. B. Hanson, T. L. Liu, Y. Sun, *Chem* **2018**, *4*, 637.
- [6] V. Maheskumar, K. Saravanakumar, Y. Yea, Y. Yoon, C. M. Park, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2023**, *48*, 5080.
- [7] Y. Pan, Y. Li, C.-L. Dong, Y.-C. Huang, J. Wu, J. Shi, Y. Lu, M. Yang, S. Wang, Y. Zou, *Chem* **2023**, *9*, 963.

- [8] Y. Liu, C. Xiao, P. Huang, M. Cheng, Y. Xie, *Chem* **2018**, *4*, 1263.
- [9] X. Pang, H. Bai, H. Zhao, W. Fan, W. Shi, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 1545.
- [10] J. D. Kim, M. Y. Choi, H. C. Choi, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2017**, *420*, 700.
- [11] V. Maheskumar, K. Saravanakumar, J. Govindan, C. M. Park, *Appl. Surf. Sci.* **2023**, *612*, 155737.
- [12] S. Yeon, S. J. Lee, D. Chinnadurai, Y. Yu, Y. W. Lee, M. Y. Choi, *J. Alloys Compd.* **2022**, *891*, 162011.
- [13] G. Zhang, Z. Yang, W. Zhang, H. Hu, C. Wang, C. Huang, Y. Wang, *Nanoscale* **2016**, *8*, 3075.
- [14] K. Wu, C. Lyu, J. Cheng, Z. Guo, H. Li, X. Zhu, W.-M. Lau, J. Zheng, *Small* **2024**, *20*, 2304390.
- [15] K. Wu, C. Cao, K. Li, C. Lyu, J. Cheng, H. Li, P. Hu, J. Wu, W.-M. Lau, X. Zhu, P. Qian, J. Zheng, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *452*, 139527.
- [16] Y. Yu, S. J. Lee, J. Theerthagiri, Y. Lee, M. Y. Choi, *Appl. Catal., B* **2022**, *316*, 121603.
- [17] H. Wang, Y. Ma, R. Wang, J. Key, V. Linkov, S. Ji, *Chem. Commun.* **2015**, *51*, 3570.
- [18] V. H. Fragal, E. H. Fragal, T. Zhang, X. Huang, T. S. P. Cellet, G. M. Pereira, A. Jitianu, A. F. Rubira, R. Silva, T. Asefa, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2019**, *29*, 1808486.
- [19] X. Guan, Q. Wu, H. Li, S. Zeng, Q. Yao, R. Li, H. Chen, Y. Zheng, K. Qu, *Appl. Catal., B* **2023**, *323*, 122145.
- [20] X. Guan, Y. Sun, S. Zhao, H. Li, S. Zeng, Q. Yao, R. Li, H. Chen, K. Qu, *SusMat* **2024**, *4*, 166.
- [21] Y. Zhao, Y. Sun, H. Li, S. Zeng, R. Li, Q. Yao, H. Chen, Y. Zheng, K. Qu, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2023**, *652*, 1848.
- [22] E. P. George, D. Raabe, R. O. Ritchie, *Nat. Rev. Mater.* **2019**, *4*, 515.
- [23] D. Wu, K. Kusada, T. Yamamoto, T. Toriyama, S. Matsumura, S. Kawaguchi, Y. Kubota, H. Kitagawa, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 13833.
- [24] Y. Xin, S. Li, Y. Qian, W. Zhu, H. Yuan, P. Jiang, R. Guo, L. Wang, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 11280.
- [25] A. Sivanantham, H. Lee, S. W. Hwang, B. Ahn, I. S. Cho, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, 16841.
- [26] H. Shi, X.-Y. Sun, S.-P. Zeng, Y. Liu, G.-F. Han, T.-H. Wang, Z. Wen, Q.-R. Fang, X.-Y. Lang, Q. Jiang, *Small Struct.* **2023**, *4*, 2300042.
- [27] X. Gao, R. He, J. Du, D. Zhou, A. Chen, X. Sun, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 14387.
- [28] R. S. Mishra, R. S. Haridas, P. Agrawal, *Mater. Sci. Eng., A* **2021**, *812*, 141085.
- [29] X. Zuo, R. Yan, L. Zhao, Y. Long, L. Shi, Q. Cheng, D. Liu, C. Hu, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2022**, *10*, 14857.
- [30] L. Fan, Y. Ji, G. Wang, J. Chen, K. Chen, X. Liu, Z. Wen, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 7224.
- [31] N. K. Katiyar, S. Nellaiappan, R. Kumar, K. D. Malviya, K. G. Pradeep, A. K. Singh, S. Sharma, C. S. Tiwary, K. Biswas, *Mater. Today Energy* **2020**, *16*, 100393.
- [32] N. L. N. Broge, A. D. Bertelsen, F. Søndergaard-Pedersen, B. B. Iversen, *Chem. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 144.
- [33] P. Zhao, Q. Cao, W. Yi, X. Hao, J. Li, B. Zhang, L. Huang, Y. Huang, Y. Jiang, B. Xu, Z. Shan, J. Chen, *ACS Nano* **2022**, *16*, 14017.
- [34] R. S. Ganji, P. Sai Karthik, K. Bhanu Sankara Rao, K. V. Rajulapati, *Acta Mater.* **2017**, *12*, 58.
- [35] A. Abdelhafiz, B. Wang, A. R. Harutyunyan, J. Li, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2200742.
- [36] J. Theerthagiri, K. Karuppasamy, A. Min, D. Govindarajan, M. L. A. Kumari, G. Muthusamy, S. Kheawhom, H.-S. Kim, M. Y. Choi, *Appl. Phys. Rev.* **2022**, 9, 041314.
- [37] T. Begildayeva, J. Theerthagiri, S. J. Lee, Y. Yu, M. Y. Choi, *Small* **2022**, *18*, 2204309.
- [38] C. E. Park, H. Lee, R. A. Senthil, G. H. Jeong, M. Y. Choi, *Fuel* **2022**, *321*, 124108.

- <span id="page-13-0"></span>[39] C. J. Moon, M. L. A. Kumari, J. Theerthagiri, A. Min, S. Yun, S. Balachandran, M. K. Arumugam, M. Y. Choi, *ACS Appl. Nano Mater.* **2024**.
- [40] S. N. Shreyanka, J. Theerthagiri, S. J. Lee, Y. Yu, M. Y. Choi, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *446*, 137045.
- [41] Y. Oh, J. Theerthagiri, M. L. Aruna Kumari, A. Min, C. J. Moon, M. Y. Choi, *J. Energy Chem.* **2024**, *91*, 145.
- [42] T.-F. Hung, Z.-W. Yin, S. B. Betzler, W. Zheng, J. Yang, H. Zheng, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2019**, *367*, 115.
- [43] C. E. Park, G. H. Jeong, J. Theerthagiri, H. Lee, M. Y. Choi, *ACS Nano* **2023**, *17*, 7539.
- [44] J. Fan, Y. Mu, X. Ge, L. Zhang, W. Li, H. Dong, D. Wang, W. Zhang, J. Ma, W. Zheng, X. Cui, *ACS Catal.* **2023**, *13*, 4120.
- [45] K. Kusada, H. Kobayashi, T. Yamamoto, S. Matsumura, N. Sumi, K. Sato, K. Nagaoka, Y. Kubota, H. Kitagawa, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2013**, *135*, 5493.
- [46] J. Chang, G. Wang, C. Li, Y. He, Y. Zhu, W. Zhang, M. Sajid, A. Kara, M. Gu, Y. Yang, *Joule* **2023**, *7*, 587.
- [47] G. R. Dey, C. R. McCormick, S. S. Soliman, A. J. Darling, R. E. Schaak, *ACS Nano* **2023**, *17*, 5943.
- [48] L. Jing, Y. Zou, R. Goei, L. Wang, J. A. Ong, A. Kurkin, Y. Li, K. W. Tan, A. I. Y. Tok, *Langmuir* **2023**, *39*, 3142.
- [49] F. Cao, H. Zhang, X. Duan, X. Li, R. Ding, K. Hua, Z. Rui, Y. Wu, M. Yuan, J. Wang, J. Li, M. Han, J. Liu, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2022**, *14*, 51975.
- [50] Y. Tuo, L. Yang, X. Ma, Z. Ma, S. Gong, P. Li, *Int. J. Hydrogen Energy* **2021**, *46*, 930.
- [51] X. Zhang, J. Zhang, J. Quan, N. Wang, Y. Zhu, *Analyst* **2016**, *141*, 5527.
- [52] W. Fang, Z. Zhang, N. Miao, R. Yang, Z. Xiao, X. Shen, Y. Cao, W. Xin, *ACS Appl. Nano Mater.* **2023**, *6*, 9949.
- [53] D. Wu, K. Kusada, Y. Nanba, M. Koyama, T. Yamamoto, T. Toriyama, S. Matsumura, O. Seo, I. Gueye, J. Kim, L. S. Rosantha Kumara, O.

- Sakata, S. Kawaguchi, Y. Kubota, H. Kitagawa, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 3365.
- [54] H. Zhu, Z. Zhu, J. Hao, S. Sun, S. Lu, C. Wang, P. Ma, W. Dong, M. Du, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *431*, 133251.
- [55] J. Kwon, S. Sun, S. Choi, K. Lee, S. Jo, K. Park, Y. K. Kim, H. B. Park, H. Y. Park, J. H. Jang, H. Han, U. Paik, T. Song, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2300091.
- [56] S. Gao, S. Hao, Z. Huang, Y. Yuan, S. Han, L. Lei, X. Zhang, R. Shahbazian-Yassar, J. Lu, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 2016.
- [57] S. Jayabal, G. Saranya, J. Wu, Y. Liu, D. Geng, X. Meng, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2017**, *5*, 24540.
- [58] N. Mahmood, Y. Yao, J.-W. Zhang, L. Pan, X. Zhang, J.-J. Zou, *Adv. Sci.* **2018**, *5*, 1700464.
- [59] L. Jia, G. Du, D. Han, Y. Wang, W. Zhao, Q. Su, S. Ding, B. Xu, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *454*, 140278.
- [60] Y. Li, J. Zhang, Y. Liu, Q. Qian, Z. Li, Y. Zhu, G. Zhang, *Sci. Adv.* **2020**, *6*, eabb4197.
- [61] Y. Mei, Y. Feng, C. Zhang, Y. Zhang, Q. Qi, J. Hu, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 10808.
- [62] R. M. S. Yoo, D. Yesudoss, D. Johnson, A. Djire, *ACS Catal.* **2023**, *13*, 10570.
- [63] H. Tan, B. Tang, Y. Lu, Q. Ji, L. Lv, H. Duan, N. Li, Y. Wang, S. Feng, Z. Li, C. Wang, F. Hu, Z. Sun, W. Yan, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 2024.
- [64] L. Zhu, J. Huang, G. Meng, T. Wu, C. Chen, H. Tian, Y. Chen, F. Kong, Z. Chang, X. Cui, J. Shi, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 1997.
- [65] F. Luo, S. Pan, Y. Xie, C. Li, Y. Yu, H. Bao, Z. Yang, *Adv. Sci.* **2023**, *10*, 2305058.
- [66] Z. Feng, H. Meng, Y. Fu, L. Ren, B. Gao, W. Liu, *Small* **2024**, *20*, 2403270.
- [67] G. Feng, Y. Pan, D. Su, D. Xia, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2309715.
- [68] F. Sun, J. Qin, Z. Wang, M. Yu, X. Wu, X. Sun, J. Qiu, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 4182.