---
source: Qin 等 - 2025 - Enhanced Cooperative Generalized Compressive Strain and Electronic Structure Engineering in W‐Nisub.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 55.693s
generated: 2026-01-10T07:55:50.579041Z
---

# **Enhanced Cooperative Generalized Compressive Strain and Electronic Structure Engineering in W-Ni3N for Efficient Hydrazine Oxidation Facilitating H2 Production**

*Hongye Qin, Guangliang Lin, Jinyang Zhang, Xuejie Cao, Wei Xia, Haocheng Yang, Kangnan Yuan, Ting Jin, Qinglun Wang, and Lifang Jiao\**

**As promising bifunctional electrocatalysts, transition metal nitrides are expected to achieve an efficient hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR) by fine-tuning electronic structure via strain engineering, thereby facilitating hydrogen production. However, understanding the correlation between strain-induced atomic microenvironments and reactivity remains challenging. Herein, a generalized compressive strained W-Ni3N catalyst is developed to create a surface with enriched electronic states that optimize intermediate binding and activate both water and N2H4. Multi-dimensional characterizations reveal a nearly linear correlation between the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) activity and the d-band center of W-Ni3N under strain state. Theoretically, compressive strain enhances the electron transfer capability at the surface, increasing donation into antibonding orbitals of adsorbed species, which accelerates the HER and HzOR. Leveraging both compressive strain and the modified electronic structure from W incorporation, the W-Ni3N catalysts demonstrate outstanding bifunctional performance, achieving overpotentials of 46 mV for HER at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and 81 mV for HzOR at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. Furthermore, W-Ni3N catalyst achieves efficient overall hydrazine splitting at a low cell voltage of 0.185 V for 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, maintaining stability for ≈450 h. This work provides new insights into the dual engineering of strain and electronic structure in the design of advanced catalysts.**

H. Qin, G. Lin, J. Zhang, X. Cao, W. Xia, H. Yang, K. Yuan, T. Jin, Q. Wang, L. Jiao

Frontiers Science Center for New Organic Matter

Key Laboratory of Advanced Energy Materials Chemistry (Ministry of Education)

State Key Laboratory of Advanced Chemical Power Sources Collaborative Innovation Center of Chemical Science and Engineering (Tianjin)

College of Chemistry Nankai University Tianjin 300071, China E-mail: [jiaolf@nankai.edu.cn](mailto:jiaolf@nankai.edu.cn)

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202417593>

**DOI: 10.1002/adma.202417593**

# **1. Introduction**

Water electrolysis is recognized as a promising approach to obtaining high-purity hydrogen to alleviate environmental pollution and the energy crisis.[\[1\]](#page-10-0) However, the inherent sluggish anode oxygen evolution reaction (OER) kinetics often render the twoelectrode water electrolyzer often requiring a higher cell voltage.[\[2\]](#page-10-0) Thus, replacing the anodic OER with the oxidation reaction of small organic molecules with relatively low theoretical potentials is highly desirable.[\[3\]](#page-10-0) It is found that the hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR) with a low theoretical potential (−0.33 V) is a promising alternative to the OER for achieving energy-saving hydrogen production and also avoids the mixing of H2 and O2 preventing the risk of explosion during the preparation.[\[4\]](#page-10-0) Given the high cost and scarcity of noble metals, it is crucial for hydrazine-assisted water electrolysis to develop non-noble metal bifunctional catalysts to accelerate both the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and HzOR kinetics.

Transition metal nitrides constitute a wealthy class of materials that stand a chance of being a promising bi-functional catalyst under alkaline conditions.[\[5\]](#page-10-0) Ni3N

shows excellent potential for industrial applications in HER and HzOR due to their high catalytic activity, unique electronic structures, and enhanced surface morphologies.[\[6\]](#page-10-0) Unfortunately, this catalyst still suffers from considerable energy losses due to a weak deprotonate ability. Ni3N electrocatalysts have also been widely studied in alkaline media for the HER on the cathode side since they provide the desired oxophilicity to tune the water dissociation step.[\[7\]](#page-10-0) Despite this advantage, their HER performance is constrained by two critical challenges: excessively strong hydrogen binding, as evidenced by the HER volcano plot, and insufficient O-H activation capability.[\[8\]](#page-10-0) Similarly, Ni3N, benefiting from their rich d-electrons, has demonstrated considerable potential for HzOR.[\[9\]](#page-10-0) Nevertheless, both theoretical and experimental studies indicate that the Ni3N surface may still exhibit limited N-H activation capability, resulting in lower energy utilization efficiency.[\[6c,10\]](#page-10-0) Thus, improving Ni3N catalysts with **[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.advmat.de](http://www.advmat.de)**

15214095, 2025, 8, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202417593 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

robust proton activation ability is urgent for advancing their bifunctional catalytic performance.

The introduction of a metal dopant is a commonly used strategy to optimize and enhance the deprotonate ability of catalysts.[\[11\]](#page-10-0) The distinctive electronic structure of 4f electrons and the unfilled 5d orbital endow W with a low spin state and more outermost vacant orbitals,[\[12\]](#page-10-0) which can effectively adjust local electron densities of the surrounding atoms, and keep the surrounding atoms in a high-valence chemical state.[\[13\]](#page-10-0) Thus, we hypothesize that the introduction of high valence W doping could create a depletion of electrons in the nitride, resulting in a surface with electron-accepting properties (Lewis acid), which may serve a dual regulatory role in both HER and HzOR. For HzOR at the anode, the exposed W sites on the Ni3N nanosheet may facilitate the adsorption of OH<sup>−</sup> groups and N2H4 molecules, both of which act as Lewis bases. This adsorption is advantageous for accelerating the rapid adsorption and deprotonation of N2H4. Additionally, for HER at the cathode, W sites weaken the surface's affinity toward Lewis acids, such as proton, thereby enhancing the overall catalytic performance.

In parallel, doping with atoms possessing larger ionic radii induces inevitable compressive strain within the support lattice.[\[14\]](#page-11-0) This compressive strain increases the overlap of metal atom *d*orbitals, leading to an expanded bandwidth and a lowered d-band center energy.[\[15\]](#page-11-0) These strain-induced modifications in the electronic structure finely tune the interactions between adsorbates and the catalyst surface. Subsequently, the optimized binding energies of these adsorbates promote rapid intermediate exchange, contributing to superior electrocatalytic performance. Recent pioneering studies have demonstrated that inducing lattice strain through atomic doping is a promising strategy for simultaneously modulating both the electronic structure and active sites of catalysts.[\[16\]](#page-11-0) However, understanding the intricate relationship between doping-induced compressive strain and electronic structure as well as their combined impact on catalytic reactivity remains an area of active research.

Herein, the introduction of high valence W doping is employed to establish a generalized compressive strained Ni3N, which aims to manipulate the electron configuration of the d-orbital in the strain zone, thereby optimizing the binding strength of intermediates and collectively activating the H2O and N2H4. By combining theoretical and experimental data, a linear correlation is established between the HER activity of W-Ni3N and the d band center (*d*) of surface active sites under compressive strain. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations reveal that the surface electronic state level is elevated due to the inherent lattice strain-induced surface structural distortion, acting as an electron reservoir. Consequently, this leads to a significant enhancement in the HzOR activity of W-Ni3N by facilitating the donation of surface electrons to the antibonding orbitals of N2H4. Benefiting from the compression strain and electronic structure dual engineering caused by high valence W incorporation, the as-produced W-Ni3N catalysts achieved exceptional bifunctional performance (overpotential of 46 mV for HER at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and 81 mV for the HzOR at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2) in the electrolyte of 1 m KOH with 1 m HzOR by a three-electrode system. Notably, the two-electrode overall hydrazine splitting (OHzS) electrolyzer requires cell voltages of 0.071 and 0.76 V for 10 and 400 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, respectively. Our findings offer a highly efficient solution for hydrogen production and provide new theoretical insight into the intricate relationship between lattice strain, electronic structure, and catalytic activity. This approach could serve as a blueprint for developing next-generation electrocatalysts with tailored properties.

# **2. Results and Discussion**

### **2.1. Catalyst Preparation and Characterization**

As illustrated in **Figure 1**[a,](#page-2-0) Ni3N and W-modified Ni3N with varying W content were synthesized via hydrothermal and nitridation processes. The W content in the samples was lower than anticipated based on the feed molar ratio; for instance, a 2% feed ratio resulted in only 1.46% W, while both 4% and 8% feed ratio yielded ≈3.86% and 6.52% W, respectively, as determined by energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) (see Table S1, Supporting Information). To facilitate discussion, the catalysts with different W doping levels are designated as Ni3N, W1-Ni3N (1.46%), W2-Ni3N (3.86%), and W3-Ni3N (6.52%). The X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns of the synthesized catalysts exhibit distinct characteristic peaks corresponding to Ni (PDF#04-0850, attributed to nickel foam) and the Ni3N superlattice (PDF#10-0280), with no detectable peaks for tungsten oxide or tungsten nitride (Figure S1, Supporting Information), indicating the successful synthesis of pure intermetallic phases in W-doped Ni3N.[\[17\]](#page-11-0) The superlattice diffraction peak near 42.0° corresponds to the (002) plane. This peak in Figure [1b](#page-2-0) exhibits notable positive shifts for the Wdoped Ni3N compared to Ni3N, confirming generating compression strain in the Ni3N lattice through the cooperation of larger ion radii atoms.

Upon the incorporation of W atoms into the Ni3N lattice, both the morphology and microstructure underwent a significant transformation, evolving from larger nanosheets to finer nanoscale sheets or ribbon-like structures (Figure S2, Supporting Information), which may be attributed to the alteration in growth kinetics in the catalyst induced by W atoms introduction.

The transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image of W3- Ni3N displays a nanoribbon structure consisting of composed of densely assembled nanoparticles (Figure [1c\)](#page-2-0), also in line with the scanning electron microscopyresults. Figure [1d](#page-2-0) and the insets show the high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) image and the corresponding fast Fourier transform (FFT) pattern. The crystal plane distances are 0.200 and 0.209 nm, corresponding to the (111) and (002) planes of Ni3N, respectively, indicating a certain degree of lattice contraction compared to pristine Ni3N.[\[18\]](#page-11-0) EDS elemental maps confirm that Ni, W, and N exist and are evenly dispersed (Figure [1e;](#page-2-0) Figure S3, Supporting Information). The elemental maps of Ni and W, along with the horizontal line profiles depicted in Figure S4 (Supporting Information), exhibit consistent elemental distribution. This serves as evidence for the formation of a uniform W-doped Ni3N structure in the nanoparticles, devoid of phase segregation. Raman spectroscopy was conducted to further characterize the surface chemical bonding states of prepared catalysts. Ni3N has typical Raman characteristic peaks at 202, and 528 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> (Figure [1f\)](#page-2-0).[\[19\]](#page-11-0) The vibration peaks located at 528 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> of Ni3N show blue shifts with the increase of W concentration (from 528.9 to 536.9 cm<sup>−</sup>1), which indicates the incorporation of

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) Schematic diagram of the synthetic process. b) XRD patterns of the Ni3N, W1-Ni3N, W2-Ni3N, and W3-Ni3N. c) TEM image and d) HRTEM image of W3-Ni3N. Inset is the FFT electron diffraction pattern of the selected region. e) HAADF and Ni, N, W elemental mapping of W3-Ni3N. f) Raman spectra of Ni3N, W1-Ni3N, W2-Ni3N, and W3-Ni3N. g) Ni 2p XPS spectra of Ni3N and W3-Ni3N. h) XAFS spectra of Ni foil, Ni3N, W1-Ni3N, W2-Ni3N, and W3-Ni3N.

W causes the local structural disorder and decreased crystallinity of Ni3N.[\[20\]](#page-11-0)

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was employed to examine the surface chemical composition and elemental valence states of the as-prepared Ni3N and W-Ni3N samples. The survey spectra show the presence of Ni, W, and N signals (Figure S5, Supporting Information). The Ni 2p core level spectra of Ni3N, and W3-Ni3N all contain one pair of spin-orbit doublets, Ni 2p3/2 and Ni 2p1/2, and their corresponding two shakeup satellite peaks.[\[21\]](#page-11-0) The peaks at 852.7 and 855.3 eV correspond to Ni<sup>+</sup> and Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> in both samples (Figure 1g). The two fitted peaks of Ni 2p3/2 and Ni 2p1/2 of W3-Ni3N located at 852.7 and 870.0 eV, are

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a) FT-EXAFS of Ni3N, W1-Ni3N, W2-Ni3N, and W3-Ni3N. b) Integrated pixel intensities of pristine and strained Ni3N along the Ni3N (111) spacing direction. c) The Ni─Ni bond length and (111) lattice spacing distribution of pristine and strained Ni3N, the right illustration demonstrates the compression strain. d) HRTEM image and e) exy strain component of the inset domain. f) The histogram of strain distribution of (e). g) HRTEM image of grain boundary and h) exy strain component of the grain boundary domain. i) The histogram strain distribution of (h). j) Top view (DFT optimized structure) and atomic site-resolved surface strain (lower panels) of Ni3N (001) with different W doping concentrations k) W1-Ni3N, l) W2-Ni3N, and m) W3-Ni3N. The blue and red points represent top and bridge sites of catalysts surface Ni atoms, respectively.

larger than those of Ni3N located at 852.5 and 869.8 eV, which demonstrates that Ni atoms donate more electrons to W atoms due to their weaker electronegativity. The high-resolution W 4f spectrum in Figure S6 (Supporting Information) shows two pairs of peaks at 34.2 and 32.1 eV assigned to the W─N bond.[\[22\]](#page-11-0) In addition, the W─O bond (37.2 and 35.1 eV) arises from inevitable surface oxidation.[\[23\]](#page-11-0) To further probe the chemical state of Ni atoms in the W-Ni3N catalysts, X-ray absorption fine structure spectroscopy (XAFS) measurements were performed (Figure [1h\)](#page-2-0). As the W doping content increases, the oxidation state of Ni in the catalyst increases sequentially from W1-Ni3N to W2-Ni3N to W3-Ni3N, consistent with the XPS results.

## **2.2. Characterization and Analysis of Microstructural Strain**

To gain deeper insights into the influence of W incorporation on the crystal structure, detailed atomic coordinate environments and lattice information of the catalysts were revealed through extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS), HRTEM, and DFT calculations. As shown in **Figure 2**a, the Fouriertransformed (FT) k3-weighted EXAFS spectrum exhibits a prominent peak at a low R value of 1.56 Å, which is in good agreement with the Ni-N peak of the Ni3N reference (the fitting results can be referred to Figures S7 and S8 and Table S2, Supporting Information). With the increase of W doping, the Ni─N bond length contracts from 1.56 to 1.46 Å (Figure S9, Supporting Information), and the trend is consistent with DFT simulation results (Figure S10, Supporting Information), potentially enhancing the electron-withdrawing ability of N toward Ni atoms, resulting in a lower electron density surrounding Ni atoms. Additionally, the average Ni─Ni bond length decreases from 2.33 to 2.27 Å, suggesting that incorporating W results in a spatial compression of Ni atoms, leading to compressive strain within the system.

As illustrated in Figure 2b, the (111) lattice spacing of W3- Ni3N, W2-Ni3N, and W1-Ni3N is 1.989, 2.014, 2.031 Å, which is approximately −2.3%, −1.1%, −0.2% smaller than that of Ni3N (2.036 Å), indicating a lattice and atomic compression (Figure S11, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure 2c, the decrease in interatomic distance and lattice spacing reveals that increasing W content progressively enhances the residual compressive strain within the catalyst. To explore the distribution

www.advmat.de

1521495, 2025, 8, Downloaded from https://advanced.oninelibitary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202417595 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library or rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensea

and extent of lattice strain across the crystalline domain in W-Ni<sub>3</sub>N, geometric phase analysis was further conducted.<sup>[24]</sup> From Figure 2d-f, the strain mappings of and statistical distribution results of the selected area of the W3-Ni3N are mainly dominated by the compression-strain concentrating around -1.91% and -0.21% for the  $e_{xy}$  and  $e_{yx}$  strain components. Simultaneously, at the grain boundary edges (Figure 2g-i), the average compressive strain reaches -7.07% and -1.61% in the  $e_{xy}$  and  $e_{xy}$ strain directions, respectively (Figure S12, Supporting Information). The introduction of W promotes the formation of smaller nanoparticles, which enhances the interconnection of multiple grain boundaries, thereby intensifying the overall bulk compressive strain. However, in contrast to conventional alloys or epitaxially grown heterostructures, where the catalyst surface experiences solely compressive strain or tension strain, we propose a novel concept of a macroscopic scale catalysis surface with generalized compressive strain (as schemed in Figure 2c). This unique design exhibits compressive strain at the surface level while maintaining localized sites with partial tensile strain, resulting in heterogeneous strain fields that can span multiple nanometers on transition metal surfaces. Additionally, the surface atomic strain distribution map from theoretical simulations also exhibits similar findings (Figure 1j-m). The simulations also indicate that with an increase in W concentration, the statistical distribution of atomic site-resolved surface strain gradually rises, while localized tensile strain persists (Figure \$13, Supporting Information). This finding is consistent with experimental results showing that the catalyst exhibits macroscopic compressive strain.

#### 2.3. Mechanism Investigation of Lattice Strain Effect on Electrochemical HER Performance

The electrochemical HER characterization was conducted in an Ar-saturated 1 м KOH electrolyte. As shown linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves in Figure 3a, the overpotential required for W<sub>3</sub>-Ni<sub>3</sub>N to achieve a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> is merely 46 mV (without iR correction), which is far superior to Ni<sub>3</sub>N (146 mV),  $W_1$ -Ni<sub>3</sub>N (90 mV), and  $W_2$ -Ni<sub>3</sub>N (63 mV) catalysts. These results demonstrate that the catalyst delivers exceptional performance relative to pristine Ni<sub>2</sub>N with the augmentation of generalized compress strain. The HER kinetic behaviors of the aforementioned electrocatalysts were evaluated using Tafel plots (Figure 3b). The Tafel slope of W<sub>3</sub>-Ni<sub>3</sub>N is 90.5 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, which is smaller than that of  $W_2$ -Ni<sub>2</sub>N (104.6 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>),  $W_1$ -Ni<sub>3</sub>N (159.0 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), and Ni<sub>3</sub>N (177.6 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>). The surface hydrolysis mechanism exhibits distinct behaviors on Ni<sub>3</sub>N and W<sub>3</sub>-Ni<sub>3</sub>N surfaces. For Ni<sub>3</sub>N, the Volmer step serves as the rate-determining step (RDS), whereas for  $W_3$ -Ni<sub>3</sub>N, the Heyrovsky step (H\* + H<sub>2</sub>O  $+ e^{-} \rightleftharpoons H_{2} + OH^{-}$ ) is identified as the RDS.<sup>[25]</sup> Under alkaline conditions, the Heyrovsky step is conceptualized as a protoncoupled electron transfer process, thus, understanding the interplay between hydrolysis and proton transfer is crucial to elucidate how the incorporation of W promotes HER activity. This phenomenon is further proved in the DFT section.

In addition, the interfacial charge transfer kinetics was studied by electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) (Figure 3c). The fitted  $R_{ct}$  values for  $Ni_3N$ ,  $W_1$ - $Ni_3N$ ,  $W_2$ - $Ni_3N$ , and  $W_3$ - $Ni_3N$ 

are 28.51, 27.73, 17.46, and 10.31  $\Omega$ , respectively (Table S3, Supporting Information). The EIS results illustrate a much smaller  $R_{ct}$  of  $W_3$ -Ni $_3$ N suggesting its excellent interfacial charge transfer kinetics. Moreover, the W doping also increases the double-layer capacitance ( $C_{dl}$ ), a larger  $C_{dl}$  corresponds to a higher electrochemical active surface, which shows that the W can serve as the active center for improving electrochemical activity (Figures S14 and S15a, Supporting Information). Additionally, regarding the HER stability test of the catalysts, the  $W_3$ -Ni $_3$ N exhibited excellent durability for up to 100 h (Figure S15b, Supporting Information), and analysis of the cyclically aged catalysts showed well-preserved morphology (Figure S16, Supporting Information).

DFT calculations were performed to investigate the proton adsorption and water dissociation behavior, as well as the corresponding strain modulation mechanisms of the HER on the catalyst surface. Given that (001) is the dominant exposed surface for Ni<sub>3</sub>N, <sup>[26]</sup> Ni<sub>3</sub>N (001) was used as the reference to create W-Ni<sub>3</sub>N models by replacing a part of surface or subsurface Ni atoms with W atoms based on the absolute energy of the model (Figure S17, Supporting Information). When plotting the HER activity of Ni<sub>3</sub>N as a function of deformation values (Figure S18, Supporting Information), the Gibbs free energy of hydrogen adsorption ( $\Delta G_{\text{H*}}$ ) revealed a distinctive line-shaped curve, with compressed strain accelerating proton transfer.

Similarly, the introduction of varying concentrations of the core heteroatoms in the nanocatalyst also results in structural disorder due to the contraction of crystal cell volume. It is also noteworthy that the microstrain values measured the strain degrees of the W<sub>1</sub>-Ni<sub>3</sub>N, W<sub>2</sub>-Ni<sub>3</sub>N, and W<sub>3</sub>-Ni<sub>3</sub>N were found to be -1.5%, -2.3%, and -2.7% compared to pristine Ni<sub>3</sub>N (Figure \$19, Supporting Information). With the increase in W doping content, the surface strain macroscopically manifests as generalized compressive deformation. Consequently, we evaluated the  $\Delta G_{\text{H}*}$  at the inequivalent surface sites and employed the average value as a descriptor of the surface reactivity. The generalized compressive strain shows a linear relationship between the surface average  $\Delta G_{H^*}$  and HER activity (Figure S20, Supporting Information). As the compressive strain increases, the catalyst exhibits less negative thermodynamic limiting potentials for HER and moderate average  $\Delta G_{H*}$  (-0.32 eV for W<sub>1</sub>-Ni<sub>3</sub>N, -0.09 eV for  $W_2$ -Ni<sub>3</sub>N, and -0.06 eV for  $W_3$ -Ni<sub>3</sub>N) compared to pristine Ni<sub>3</sub>N (-0.37 eV, Figure 3d). In addition, the increase in compressive strain also promotes the adsorption of surface hydroxyl groups (Figure S21, Supporting Information). Typically, a weak  $\Delta G_{H^*}$ accelerates the Tafel process, while strong OH\* adsorption energy intensifies H<sub>2</sub>O dissociation.<sup>[27]</sup> Therefore, the compressive strain in Ni<sub>3</sub>N optimizes both factors, synergistically promoting the HER process.

Electronic structure analysis was performed to pinpoint the physical origin of the linear scaling relations between strain level and  $\Delta G_{\rm H^*}$  on metal surfaces. As shown in Figure 3e,f, the  $\epsilon_{\rm d}$  also exhibits a linear relationship with the degree of compressive strain. The  $\epsilon_{\rm d}$  analysis reveals that the W incorporation induces the  $\epsilon_{\rm d}$  farther away from the Fermi level in W<sub>1</sub>-Ni<sub>3</sub>N (–1.22), W<sub>2</sub>-Ni<sub>3</sub>N (–1.27), and W<sub>3</sub>-Ni<sub>3</sub>N (–1.29) compared to that in Ni<sub>3</sub>N (–1.19), which implies the antibonding states are filled with more electrons and also explains the moderate H adsorption/desorption behavior after W doping

www.advmat.de

15214965, 2025, 8, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibitary.viley.com/doi/10.1002/adna.2024/17593 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on (07/01/2026). See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibitary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licenser and Conditions (https://onlinelibitary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licenser and Conditions (https://onlinelibitary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licenser and Conditions (https://onlinelibitary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licenser and Conditions (https://onlinelibitary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licenser and Conditions (https://onlinelibitary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licenser and Conditions (https://onlinelibitary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for the applicable Creative Commons.

<span id="page-5-0"></span>Figure 3. a) HER LSV polarization curves, b) Tafel plot, and c) EIS plots of prepared catalysts. The inset is the equivalent circuit model that contains the electrolyte resistance ( $R_s$ ), constant phase element (CPE), and charge-transfer resistance ( $R_{ct}$ ). d) The relationship between current density at an overpotential of -10 mV and average  $\Delta G_{H^{\pm}}$  with varying W doping content. e) The relationship between lattice strain level and  $\Delta G_{H^{\pm}}$ . f) The correlation between lattice strain level and  $\epsilon_d$ . g) The atomic resolution  $\epsilon_d$  of Ni<sub>3</sub>N, W<sub>1</sub>-Ni<sub>3</sub>N, W<sub>2</sub>-Ni<sub>3</sub>N, and W<sub>3</sub>-Ni<sub>3</sub>N, the N atoms band center set as 0. h) The water adsorption energy and dissociation barrier of Ni<sub>3</sub>N and W<sub>3</sub>-Ni<sub>3</sub>N.

(Figure S22, Supporting Information). [28] The atomically resolved d-band structure (Figure 3g; Figure S23, Supporting Information) reveals that incorporating W atoms, an element with a high  $\epsilon_{\rm d}$ , unexpectedly causes an overall downward shift in the catalyst's  $\epsilon_{\rm d}$ . If W atoms were the dominant modulator of the electronic structure, its introduction would theoretically raise the  $\epsilon_{\rm d}$  rather than lower it. This observation suggests that W primarily induces generalized compressive strain, which optimizes the catalyst's electronic structure and enhances its performance.

Moreover, the compressed structure resulting from the introduction of W atoms causes the distance between the H atom and the O atoms of adsorption  $H_2O$  to increase from 0.980 Å ( $Ni_3N$ ) to 0.984 Å ( $W_3$ - $Ni_3N$ ) (Figure S24, Supporting Information). The

enlarged distance helps accelerate the cleavage of H-O in the  $\rm H_2O$  and reduces the energy barrier of  $\rm H_2O$  dissociation. This conclusion is further substantiated by the observed reduced hydrolysis dynamics. Figure 3h reveals that the strained  $\rm W_3$ -Ni<sub>3</sub>N surface significantly enhances water molecule adsorption, with an adsorption energy of -0.89 eV compared to -0.57 eV for Ni<sub>3</sub>N. Correspondingly, the  $\rm H_2O$  dissociation barrier dramatically decreases from 0.76 eV in the Ni<sub>3</sub>N catalyst to 0.44 eV in  $\rm W_3$ -Ni<sub>3</sub>N. Based on the above analysis, the strain-induced modulation of the electronic structure in catalyst  $\rm W_3$ -Ni<sub>3</sub>N leads to accelerated  $\rm H_2O$  dissociation and optimized proton transfer thermodynamics, which cooperatively expedites the alkaline HER kinetics.

www.advmat.de

15214965, 2025, 8, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibitary.viley.com/doi/10.1002/adna.2024/17593 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on (07/01/2026). See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibitary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licenser and Conditions (https://onlinelibitary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licenser and Conditions (https://onlinelibitary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licenser and Conditions (https://onlinelibitary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licenser and Conditions (https://onlinelibitary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licenser and Conditions (https://onlinelibitary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons. Licenser and Conditions (https://onlinelibitary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for the applicable Creative Commons.

Figure 4. a) Cyclic Voltammetry (CV) curves of  $W_3$ -Ni<sub>3</sub>N at different  $N_2H_4$  concentrations. b) CV curves of catalysts in 1 m KOH with 1 m  $N_2H_4$  electrolyte. c) Comparison of the required potentials of catalysts for HzOR at 100 and 200 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. d) EIS plots of prepared catalysts at 10 mV vs. RHE. Electrochemical in situ ATR-FTIR spectroscopy over e) Ni<sub>3</sub>N and f)  $W_3$ -Ni<sub>3</sub>N for HzOR at the potential range of 0–0.30 V with an interval of 0.05 V.

#### 2.4. Electrochemical Measurements of HzOR

The prepared strained electrocatalysts are further measured in 1 m KOH with various hydrazine electrolyte concentrations (0.1, 0.5, and 1 m) to study the electrocatalytic activity of HzOR (Figure S25, Supporting Information). Compared to the Ni $_3$ N, W $_1$ -Ni $_3$ N, and W $_2$ -Ni $_3$ N catalysts, the W $_3$ -Ni $_3$ N catalyst exhibits significantly better activity response across various N $_2$ H $_4$  concentrations, achieving optimal performance in 1 m N $_2$ H $_4$  electrolyte solution (Figure 4a). This observation suggests that compressive strain significantly contributes to the catalytic activity centers for hydrazine decomposition. For comparison, comprehensive electrochemical tests are further measured in 1 m KOH containing 1 m N $_2$ H $_4$  electrolytes to assess the strain effects on the electrocatalytic activity of HzOR.

In Figure 4b,c, the  $W_3$ -Ni $_3$ N exhibits superior HzOR activity with an initial potential of -55 mV (vs. RHE). In addition, the lower overpotential of 81 mV can be realized at 100 mA cm $^{-2}$ , which is notably lower than that of  $W_2$ -Ni $_3$ N (93 mV),  $W_1$ -Ni $_3$ N (94 mV), and Ni $_3$ N (141 mV). EIS was performed at a potential of 10 mV vs. RHE to gain further insights into the kinetics of catalysts. As shown in Figure 4d,  $W_3$ -Ni $_3$ N exhibits a lower  $R_{ct}$  of 1.82  $\Omega$  compared with Ni $_3$ N (3.26  $\Omega$ ),  $W_1$ -Ni $_3$ N (2.22  $\Omega$ ), and  $W_2$ -Ni $_3$ N (2.19  $\Omega$ ), further illustrating its faster HzOR kinetics (Table S4, Supporting Information). The HzOR activity of  $W_3$ -Ni $_3$ N was stable at 50 mA cm $^{-2}$  in 120 h in a three-electrode system (Figure

S26, Supporting Information), underlining the excellent structural stability.

In situ attenuated total reflectance Fourier transform infrared (ATR-FTIR) spectroscopy was utilized to investigate the reaction kinetics on strained modified active sites incorporating W at the molecular level. The in situ ATR-FTIR spectroscopy was performed on catalysts in a 1 м N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub>-containing KOH solution at a working potential with intervals of 0.05 V. Several peaks attributed to  $N_2H_v$  (1  $\leq$  y  $\leq$  4) intermediates involved in the HzOR were observed to increase and ultimately stabilize. These peaks include the NH<sub>2</sub> stretching mode at  $\approx$ 3356 cm<sup>-1</sup>, the NH<sub>2</sub> twisting mode  $\approx$ 1612 cm<sup>-1</sup>, the -NH<sub>2</sub> wagging mode near 1283 cm<sup>-1</sup>, and the N-N stretching mode at ≈1098 cm<sup>-1</sup> (Figure 4e). [29] As illustrated in Figure 4f, the concentration increment of various HzOR intermediates in W-Ni<sub>3</sub>N is slightly higher than those in Ni<sub>3</sub>N, indicating enhanced HzOR reaction kinetics over the strained W-Ni<sub>3</sub>N, which is attributed to the modified electronic structure of Ni sites resulting from the compressive strain. Notably, as the working potential increases, all peak positions exhibit a blue shift. Concurrently, at the same working potential, the three distinct –NH<sub>2</sub> wagging peaks of W<sub>3</sub>-Ni<sub>3</sub>N also display slight blue shifts compared to those on the Ni<sub>3</sub>N surface. The observed blue shift in the N-H characteristic infrared peak suggests an increased surface coverage of N-H species, [30] along with a potential reorganization of their adsorption configurations. These changes facilitate improved charge transfer and deprotonation

**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.advmat.de](http://www.advmat.de)**

15214095, 2025, 8, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202417593 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

processes, collectively accelerating the reaction kinetics, as further corroborated by DFT simulations.

# **2.5. N2H4 Dissociation Mechanism and Theoretical Analysis**

DFT calculations were performed to deeply investigate the underlying mechanism by which electronic structure and compressive strain promote HzOR. In the dehydrogenation process for HzOR on the catalysis surface, three scenarios are conceivable: adsorption of N2H4, N─H bond cleavage, and N2 desorption.[\[31\]](#page-11-0)

First, the free energies of the dehydrogenation process for HzOR desorption kinetics are investigated (**Figure 5**[a\)](#page-8-0). The intermediate species exhibits a distinct configuration on surface W3-Ni3N compared to the Ni3N surface (Figure [5a,](#page-8-0) insets). This configurational variation optimizes the thermodynamic pathway of the HzOR. In addition, the potential determinate step (PDS) for W3-Ni3N is the fourth dehydrogenation (\*N2H → \*N2), and the corresponding free energy barrier (Δ*G*PDS) is calculated to be 0.48 eV. For the Ni3N catalysts surface, the PDS is the second dehydrogenation from \*N2H3 to \*N2H2, and the corresponding energy barrier is as high as 0.68 eV. These results reveal that the HzOR may prefer to occur on the W3-Ni3N, in which the electrondeficient W sites act as the active centers to accept the lone pair electrons of N2H4.

To elucidate the molecular orbital rationale behind the heightened thermodynamic efficacy of N2H4 deprotonation induced by W incorporation, we conducted an intricate electronic structure analysis on the N2H4 molecule adsorbed onto the catalytic surface (Figure [5b\)](#page-8-0). Remarkably, in contrast to N2H4 adsorbed on the Ni3N surface, the anti-bonding orbitals of hydrazine hydrate molecules adsorbed on the W3-Ni3N surface exhibit lowered energies and manifest a heightened degree of electron localization below fermi level (Figure [5c–f\)](#page-8-0). This augmented localization facilitates the transfer of electrons from W to the anti-bonding orbitals of hydrazine hydrate, thereby enfeebling the N─H bonds. This phenomenon is further supported by the observation that the N2H4 molecule undergoes stronger polarization on the W3- Ni3N surface compared to Ni3N, with electrons preferentially accumulating on the nitrogen atoms (asymmetric polarization), as evidenced by the Bader charge analysis (Table S6, Supporting Information).[\[32\]](#page-11-0) This increased polarization weakens the N─H bond, resulting in its elongation from 1.026 Å when adsorbed on the Ni3N surface to 1.031 Å on the W3-Ni3N surface. The energy-weighted integrated crystal orbital Hamiltonian population (-ICOHP) sums up to *E*<sup>f</sup> per bond type were also calculated to give Hamilton populations of N─H bonds (Figure [5d,f\)](#page-8-0).[\[33\]](#page-11-0) The average value of -ICOHP for N-H interactions in N2H4-W3- Ni3N (3.48 eV) is less than that in N2H4 -Ni3N (3.50 eV), which demonstrates the lower N─H bonding strength at W3-Ni3N surface. Additionally, from a thermodynamic perspective, the compressive strain in Ni3N also promotes OH<sup>−</sup> adsorption, which could increase the local OH<sup>−</sup> concentration at the electrochemical interface,[\[3d\]](#page-10-0) thereby enhancing the HzOR.

Then, based on previous theoretical studies on the HER, it was demonstrated that the introduction of W induces compressive strain in the Ni3N structure, resulting in significant modifications to the electronic structure of catalysts. To assess the impact of these changes on HzOR, the potential activation mechanisms between the catalyst and solvent molecules were further examined. We first evaluated the impact of W doping on the intrinsic electron transfer capability of the catalyst surface. As depicted in Figure S27 (Supporting Information), compressive strain in W3-Ni3N significantly reduces the work function to 5.10 eV, compared to 5.40 eV in pristine Ni3N. This implied that the chemical potential for electrons at the fermi level of W3-Ni3N is high enough to drive the electron transfer from the catalytic center to the antibonding orbitals of N2H4 during HzOR.

As depicted in the schematic diagram, the controlling interactions between Ni3N and solvent molecules are likely to be the two-orbital, two-electron stabilizing interactions (Interaction A), rather than the two-orbital, four-electron interactions (Interaction B).[\[34\]](#page-11-0) The latter is destabilizing and repulsive. Depending on the relative energy of the orbitals and the quality of the overlap, each interaction will involve charge transfer from one system to the other. To qualitatively evaluate the ability of catalysts to transfer electrons to the LUMO orbitals of organic molecules, we introduce a metric defined as the difference between the catalyst surface Fermi level and the N2H4 LUMO energy level (denoted as CatEf-N2H4LUMO). As shown in Figure [5g,h,](#page-8-0) the W3-Ni3N system exhibits a higher CatEf-N2H4LUMO compared to pristine Ni3N, highlighting its enhanced electron transfer capability. This electronic structure and bonding analysis further elucidates the observed reduction in the N-H dissociation barrier. W doping promotes electron transfer from the catalyst surface to the N─H antibonding orbitals of N2H4, while simultaneously leveraging the energy of its N─H bonding orbitals (Figure [5d,f\)](#page-8-0). This dual effect synergistically weakens the N─H bonds and lowers the dissociation energy barrier, facilitating the reaction pathway. Additionally, this surface-molecule interaction framework is equally applicable to the elevated CatEf-H2OLUMO level of the W3-Ni3N catalyst (Figure S28, Supporting Information), which also significantly contributes to enhancing water dissociation kinetics.

#### **2.6. Investigation of HzOR-Assisted HER Dual-Electrode Performance**

Inspired by the excellent bifunctional performance in both HzOR and HER, a two-electrode electrolyzer based on OHzS was assembled with W3-Ni3N electrodes to demonstrate its potential applications for energy-saving H2 production (**Figure 6**[a\)](#page-9-0). The potential of HzOR/HER couple for W3-Ni3N as the anode and cathode to reach 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> is as low as 0.47 V, which is 1.5 V smaller than that of OER/HER (Figure [6b\)](#page-9-0). Additionally, the current density at 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> remains stable during a continuous i-t test lasting for almost 450 h (Figure [6c\)](#page-9-0), performing the brilliant electrochemical stability and morphological integrity of the W3-Ni3N electrode in OHzS for practical application (Figure [6d;](#page-9-0) Table S5, Supporting Information). Notably, once the electrolyte was refreshed, the current density immediately recovered, suggesting that the decay in density was due to the decreased N2H4 concentration. The morphologies of both the anode and cathode of W3-Ni3N remain unchanged after ≈450 h i-t electrochemical test (Figure S29, Supporting Information). The corresponding lattice spacings of 0.2010 nm (anode) and 0.2017 nm (cathode) along the (111) plane indicate persistent compressive strain throughout the electrochemical process, demonstrating remarkable

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**Figure 5.** a) The Gibbs free energy diagram of N2H4 deprotonation for Ni3N and W3-Ni3N, the insets represent the adsorption model of relevant intermediates. b) Electron density difference maps of the surface-N2H4 interface plotted at the isosurface value of 0.001 electrons born<sup>−</sup>3. Yellow and cyan isosurfaces represent spatial regions experiencing an increase or decrease in electron density, respectively. The bond length of N-H of adsorped N2H4 is also listed as insets. The adjacent Ni or W site and N2H4 molecule partial DOS plots of c) Ni3N, and e) W3-Ni3N. The N─H bonds ICOHP value of adsorped N2H4 at d) Ni3N and f) W3-Ni3N surface. Schematic representation of the possible orbital interactions between the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) and lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) of isolated N2H4 and the surface of the catalyst. Strong and weak orbital interactions are represented by solid and dashed lines, respectively, along with the Fermi level of g) Ni3N and h) W3-Ni3N.

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**Figure 6.** a) Overall diagram of N2H4-assisted water electrolysis. b) The LSV curves (without iR-correction) for OHzS in 1 m KOH and 1 m N2H4 and overall water splitting (OWS) in 1 m KOH, with W3-Ni3N as both the anode and cathode. c) The *i–t* curves of W3-Ni3N for OHzS recorded at the voltage of 0.185 V potential maintained ≈450 h. d) Comparison of the electrochemical performance of the OHzS for W3-Ni3N with recently reported state-of-the-art catalysts at different working conditions. e) Hydrogen production efficiency analysis of W3-Ni3N as a catalyst for OWS and OHzS.

<span id="page-10-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.advmat.de](http://www.advmat.de)**

15214095, 2025, 8, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adma.202417593 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

structural stability of the W3-Ni3N. (Figure S30, Supporting Information). The use of hydrazine in our system significantly reduces energy consumption during hydrogen production (Figure [6e\)](#page-9-0). Experimental results show that with hydrazine assistance, the energy consumption is 12.60 kWh kg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> H2 at a working current density of 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, amounting to approximately \$1.31 kg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> H2 based on an electricity cost of \$0.104 per kWh in China.[4a] In contrast, without hydrazine, the energy consumption increases to 52.80 kWh kg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> H2, corresponding to approximately \$5.49 kg<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> H2. This difference highlights a 4.19-fold reduction in costs when employing hydrazine, demonstrating its substantial costsaving advantage in this hydrogen production process.

## **3. Conclusion**

In this study, we investigated the dual influence of generalized compressive strain and electronic structure on the bifunctional electrocatalytic performance of W-doped Ni3N, specifically focusing on the HER and HzOR. As a non-noble metal catalyst, the compressed W-doped Ni3N exhibits remarkably low operational potentials of −42 and −46 mV vs. RHE at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for HzOR and HER, respectively. The exceptional bifunctional performance of W-doped Ni3N arises from its dual role in modulating electronic structure and intrinsic lattice strain. W intercalation induces compressive strain in surface atoms, which enhances surface electronic states and lowers the d-band center at active sites, establishing a correlation between HER activity and surface strain. This compressive strain reduces the work function of the catalysts surface, facilitating electron transfer to antibonding states of intermediates, which weakens covalent O─H and N─H bonds. Consequently, this mechanism enhances the thermodynamics of water molecule dissociation and hydrazine decomposition, ultimately improving catalytic efficiency and durability in electrolyzer systems. Our findings provide critical insights into the synergistic regulation of strain and electronic structure on catalytic activity. This work not only advances the comprehension of these mechanisms but also offers a strategic framework for future catalyst design, with the potential to broaden the application of anodic organic molecule oxidation coupled with hydrogen production.

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# **Acknowledgements**

This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (52025013, 22121005), and the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities.

## **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available on request from the corresponding author. The data are not publicly available due to privacy or ethical restrictions.

# **Keywords**

compressive strain, electronic structure, hydrazine oxidation reaction, hydrogen evolution reaction, Ni3N

> Received: November 13, 2024 Revised: December 22, 2024 Published online: January 7, 2025

- [1] a) Z. W. Seh, J. Kibsgaard, C. F. Dickens, I. Chorkendorff, J. K. Nørskov, T. F. Jaramillo, *Science.* **2017**, *355*, eaad4998; b) B. Jia, B. Zhang, Z. Cai, X. Yang, L. Li, L. Guo, *eScience.* **2023**, *3*, 100112; c) J. Gautam, Y. Liu, J. Gu, Z. Ma, J. Zha, B. Dahal, L.-N. Zhang, A. N. Chishti, L. Ni, G. Diao, Y. Wei, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2106147; d) H. Jin, X. Wang, C. Tang, A. Vasileff, L. Li, A. Slattery, S.-Z. Qiao, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2007508; e) Y. Huang, Y. Sun, X. Zheng, T. Aoki, B. Pattengale, J. Huang, X. He, W. Bian, S. Younan, N. Williams, J. Hu, J. Ge, N. Pu, X. Yan, X. Pan, L. Zhang, Y. Wei, J. Gu, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 982.
- [2] P. Guo, S. Cao, W. Huang, X. Lu, W. Chen, Y. Zhang, Y. Wang, X. Xin, R. Zou, S. Liu, X. Li, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2311766.
- [3] a) J. Maya-Cornejo, A. Ledesma-Durán, S. I. Hernández, I. Santamaría-Holek, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2022**, *169*, 046505; b) V. T. T. Phan, Q. P. Nguyen, B. Wang, I. J. Burgess, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2024**, *146*, 4830; c) S. Zheng, H. Qin, X. Cao, T. Wang, W. Lu, L. Jiao, *J. Energy. Chem.* **2022**, *70*, 258; d) H. Qin, Y. Ye, G. Lin, J. Zhang, W. Jia, W. Xia, L. Jiao, *ACS Catal.* **2024**, *14*, 16234.
- [4] a) C. Feng, M. Lv, J. Shao, H. Wu, W. Zhou, S. Qi, C. Deng, X. Chai, H. Yang, Q. Hu, C. He, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2305598; b) Y. Hu, T. Chao, Y. Li, P. Liu, T. Zhao, G. Yu, C. Chen, X. Liang, H. Jin, S. Niu, W. Chen, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202308800.
- [5] a) F. Song, W. Li, J. Yang, G. Han, T. Yan, X. Liu, Y. Rao, P. Liao, Z. Cao, Y. Sun, *ACS Energy. Lett.* **2019**, *4*, 1594; b) F. Lin, Z. Dong, Y. Yao, L. Yang, F. Fang, L. Jiao, *Adv. Energy. Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 2002176; c) X. Zhou, Y. Mo, F. Yu, L. Liao, X. Yong, F. Zhang, D. Li, Q. Zhou, T. Sheng, H. Zhou, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2209465.
- [6] a) Z. Wang, L. Xu, F. Huang, L. Qu, J. Li, K. A. Owusu, Z. Liu, Z. Lin, B. Xiang, X. Liu, K. Zhao, X. Liao, W. Yang, Y.-B. Cheng, L. Mai, *Adv. Energy. Mater.* **2019**, *9*, 1900390; b) X. Wang, H. Hu, X. Yan, Z. Zhang, M. Yang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, 202401364; c) Y. Liu, J. Zhang, Y. Li, Q. Qian, Z. Li, G. Zhang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2103673.
- [7] S. Niu, Y. Fang, J. Zhou, J. Cai, Y. Zang, Y. Wu, J. Ye, Y. Xie, Y. Liu, X. Zheng, W. Qu, X. Liu, G. Wang, Y. Qian, *J. Mater. Chem. A.* **2019**, *7*, 10924.
- [8] a) F. Song, W. Li, J. Yang, G. Han, P. Liao, Y. Sun, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9*, 4531; b) R. W. Cross, S. R. Rondiya, N. Y. Dzade, *Catalysts.* **2021**, *11*, 716.
- [9] H. Hu, Z. Xu, Z. Zhang, X. Yan, X. Wang, Y. Zhu, J. Wang, M. Yang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2403863.
- [10] J. Zhang, Y. Liu, J. Li, X. Jin, Y. Li, Q. Qian, Y. Wang, A. El-Harairy, Z. Li, Y. Zhu, H. Zhang, M. Cheng, S. Zeng, G. Zhang, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces.* **2021**, *13*, 3881.
- [11] a) H. Su, M. A. Soldatov, V. Roldugin, Q. Liu, *eScience.* **2022**, *2*, 102; b) H. Qin, Y. Ye, J. Li, W. Jia, S. Zheng, X. Cao, G. Lin, L. Jiao, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2209698; c) L. Zheng, M. Niu, T. Zeng, X. Ge, Y. Wang, C. X. Guo, W. Yuan, D. Cao, L. Y. Zhang, C. M. Li, *eScience.* **2024**, *4*, 100187.
- [12] J. Yan, L. Kong, Y. Ji, J. White, Y. Li, J. Zhang, P. An, S. Liu, S.-T. Lee, T. Ma, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 2149.
- [13] B. Zhang, L. Wang, Z. Cao, S. M. Kozlov, F. P. García de Arquer, C. T. Dinh, J. Li, Z. Wang, X. Zheng, L. Zhang, Y. Wen, O. Voznyy, R. Comin, P. De Luna, T. Regier, W. Bi, E. E. Alp, C.-W. Pao, L. Zheng, Y. Hu, Y. Ji,

- <span id="page-11-0"></span>Y. Li, Y. Zhang, L. Cavallo, H. Peng, E. H. Sargent, *Nat. Catal.* **2020**, *3*, 985.
- [14] a) Z. Hou, C. Cui, Y. Li, Y. Gao, D. Zhu, Y. Gu, G. Pan, Y. Zhu, T. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2209876; b) R. Shannon, *Acta Crystallogr. A.* **1976**, *32*, 751.
- [15] Z. Wang, S. Chen, W. Wu, R. Chen, Y. Zhu, H. Jiang, L. Yu, N. Cheng, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2301310.
- [16] a) Y. Qin, T. Yu, S. Deng, X.-Y. Zhou, D. Lin, Q. Zhang, Z. Jin, D. Zhang, Y.-B. He, H.-J. Qiu, L. He, F. Kang, K. Li, T.-Y. Zhang, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 3784; b) H.-Y. Wang, F. Yan, H. Wang, S. Zhai, J.-T. Ren, L. Wang, M. Sun, Z.-Y. Yuan, *Adv. Energy. Mater.* **2024**, *11*, 2402611.
- [17] Z. Liang, H. Liu, S. Huang, M. Xing, Z. Li, S. Wang, L. Yang, D. Cao, *J. Mater. Chem. A.* **2023**, *11*, 849.
- [18] T. Liu, M. Li, C. Jiao, M. Hassan, X. Bo, M. Zhou, H.-L. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A.* **2017**, *5*, 9377.
- [19] N. Zhang, Y. Zou, L. Tao, W. Chen, L. Zhou, Z. Liu, B. Zhou, G. Huang, H. Lin, S. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 15895.
- [20] a) S. Mignuzzi, A. J. Pollard, N. Bonini, B. Brennan, I. S. Gilmore, M. A. Pimenta, D. Richards, D. Roy, *Phys. Rev. B.* **2015**, *91*, 195411; b) H. Qin, B. Zhang, Y. Pan, X. Wang, L. Diao, J. Chen, J. Wu, E. Liu, J. Sha, L. Ma, N. Zhao, *J. Catal.* **2020**, *381*, 493.
- [21] P. Li, Y. Huang, Q. Huang, W. Li, S. Tian, *J. Energy. Chem.* **2023**, *87*, 479.
- [22] D. He, L. Cao, J. Huang, S. Li, Y. Feng, G. Li, F. Wang, L. Feng, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *429*, 131945.
- [23] C. Lv, X. Wang, L. Gao, A. Wang, S. Wang, R. Wang, X. Ning, Y. Li, D. W. Boukhvalov, Z. Huang, C. Zhang, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 13323.

- [24] M. J. Hÿtch, E. Snoeck, R. Kilaas, *Ultramicroscopy.* **1998**, *74*, 131.
- [25] M. R. G. de Chialvo, A. C. Chialvo, *J. Electroanal. Chem.* **1994**, *372*, 209.
- [26] L. Su, D. Gong, N. Yao, Y. Li, Z. Li, W. Luo, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2106156.
- [27] H. Ren, Z. Zhang, Z. Geng, Z. Wang, F. Shen, X. Liang, Z. Cai, Y. Wang, D. Cheng, Y. Cao, X. Yang, M. Hu, X. Yao, K. Zhou, *Adv. Energy. Mater.* **2024**, *14*, 2400777.
- [28] B. Hammer, J. K. Nørskov, *Surf. Sci.* **1995**, *343*, 211.
- [29] a) D. N. Sathyanarayana, D. Nicholls, *Spectrochim. Acta, Part A. Mol. Spectros.* **1978**, *34*, 263; b) T. Matsui, S. Suzuki, Y. Katayama, K. Yamauchi, T. Okanishi, H. Muroyama, K. Eguchi, *Langmuir.* **2015**, *31*, 11717.
- [30] a) C.-C. Chuang, J.-S. Shiu, J.-L. Lin, *Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.* **2000**, *2*, 2629; b) F. Boccuzzi, A. Chiorino, M. Manzoli, D. Andreeva, T. Tabakova, *J. Catal.* **1999**, *188*, 176.
- [31] T. Yu, G. Liu, T. Nie, Z. Wu, Z. Song, X. Sun, Y.-F. Song, *ACS Catal.* **2024**, *14*, 14937.
- [32] W. Tang, E. Sanville, G. Henkelman, *J. Phys.: Condens. Matter.* **2009**, *21*, 084204.
- [33] V. L. Deringer, A. L. Tchougréeff, R. Dronskowski, *J. Phys. Chem. A.* **2011**, *115*, 5461.
- [34] a) Y. Tsuji, K. Yoshizawa, *J. Phys. Chem. C.* **2018**, *122*, 15359; b) T. Kamachi, T. Tatsumi, T. Toyao, Y. Hinuma, Z. Maeno, S. Takakusagi, S. Furukawa, I. Takigawa, K.-i. Shimizu, *J. Phys. Chem. C.* **2019**, *123*, 20988.