---
source: Sundar Rajan 等 - 2025 - Self‐Powered Hydrogen Production via Laser‐Coordinated NiCoPt Alloy Catalysts in an Integrated Zn‐Hy.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 49.881s
generated: 2026-01-10T07:59:28.134624Z
---

**[www.small-methods.com](http://www.small-methods.com)**

# **Self-Powered Hydrogen Production via Laser-Coordinated NiCoPt Alloy Catalysts in an Integrated Zn-Hydrazine Battery with Hydrazine Splitting**

*Akash Prabhu Sundar Rajan, Raja Arumugam Senthil, Cheol Joo Moon, Anuj Kumar, Ahreum Min, Mohd Ubaidullah, and Myong Yong Choi\**

**This study proposes a novel approach for the rapid transformation of bimetallic NiCo-oxides into trimetallic NiCoPt alloys using a pulsed laser technique in an ethanol medium in the presence of Pt salts. The electrochemical results demonstrate the exceptional dual-functional activity of the optimized NiCoPt-10 alloy, effectively catalyzing both hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR). Specifically, the NiCoPt-10 alloy presents a low overpotential of 90 mV at 10 mA·cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for HER and a small working potential of 0.068 V versus the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) at 10 mA·cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for HzOR. In situ Raman spectroscopy and theoretical calculations delivered insights into the dual-functional activity of the NiCoPt alloy. Consequently, the overall hydrazine splitting (OHzS) electrolyzer, employing a NiCoPt-10||NiCoPt-10 configuration, required only 0.295 V to deliver 10 mA·cm<sup>−</sup>2. Notably, using this dual-functional NiCoPt-10 catalyst as the cathode combined with Zn foil as the anode in a Zn–hydrazine (Zn-Hz) battery, achieved efficient hydrogen (H2) production with an energy efficiency of 97%. Furthermore, self-powered H2 production is realized by integrating the Zn-Hz battery with the OHzS electrolyzer, demonstrating its excellent potential for practical applications. Thus, this rapid synthetic strategy can aid in designing effective electrocatalysts for addressing challenges in H2 energy production.**

A. P. Sundar Rajan, R. A. Senthil, M. Y. Choi Department of Chemistry (BK21 FOUR) Research Institute of Advanced Chemistry Gyeongsang National University Jinju 52828, Republic of Korea E-mail: [mychoi@gnu.ac.kr](mailto:mychoi@gnu.ac.kr) C. J. Moon, A. Min, M. Y. Choi Core-Facility Center for Photochemistry & Nanomaterials Gyeongsang National University Jinju 52828, Republic of Korea A. Kumar Nano-Technology Research Laboratory Department of Chemistry GLA University Mathura, Uttar Pradesh 281406, India M. Ubaidullah Department of Chemistry College of Science King Saud University Riyadh 11451, Saudi Arabia

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/smtd.202401709>

**DOI: 10.1002/smtd.202401709**

## **1. Introduction**

In response to global energy demands and environmental pollution challenges, hydrogen (H2) has emerged as a promising energy resource, characterized by high energy density, exceptional cleanliness, enhanced safety, carbon-free nature, and greater sustainability.[\[1\]](#page-12-0) Accordingly, identifying a suitable and clean technology for large-scale H2 fuel production has become a critical task for scientists globally.[\[2\]](#page-12-0) Electrochemical water electrolysis, driven via renewable resources like solar or wind energy, is being investigated as a sustainable method for producing high-purity H2 fuel. This process utilizes water as the source and releases nontoxic oxygen as a byproduct.[\[3\]](#page-12-0) Electrochemical water electrolysis comprises the cathodic hydrogen evolution reaction (HER; 4H2O + 4e<sup>−</sup> → 2H2 + 4OH<sup>−</sup>) and the anodic oxygen evolution reaction (OER; 4OH<sup>−</sup> → O2 + 2H2O + 4e<sup>−</sup>). However, the overall water splitting (OWS) demands a high thermodynamic

potential of 1.23 V, primarily owing to the slow kinetics of the OER.[\[4\]](#page-12-0) A strategy to mitigate this challenge involves employing a low-energy anodic reaction instead of OER, coupled with cathodic HER, to reduce the energy requirement for the OWS process. To date, researchers have explored several small molecule anodic reactions, including urea,[\[5\]](#page-12-0) benzyl alcohol,[\[6\]](#page-12-0) hydroxymethylfurfural,[\[7\]](#page-13-0) ethanol,[\[8\]](#page-13-0) methanol[\[9\]](#page-13-0) and hydrazine[\[10\]](#page-13-0) to construct hybrid low-potential water electrolysis.

Among these, coupling the hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR; N2H4 + 4OH<sup>−</sup> → N2 + 4H2O + 4e<sup>−</sup>) with HER is particularly advantageous, given its ultra-low oxidation potential (−0.33 V vs RHE), rapid reaction kinetics, and the absence of harmful byproducts such as CO2 or CO.[\[11\]](#page-13-0) In addition, hydrazine is frequently utilized in diverse industrial applications, leading to the discharge and mixing of toxic hydrazine wastes in industrial sewage. In this context, coupling HzOR with HER in overall hydrazine splitting (OHzS) system promotes high-efficiency H2 production as well as contributes to the degradation of hydrazine in aqueous environments.[\[12\]](#page-13-0) This integration also can facilitate the creation of a membrane-free electrolyzer owing to the much safer N2 gas obtained as the oxidation product.[\[13\]](#page-13-0) However,

**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-methods.com](http://www.small-methods.com)**

despite its benefits, OHzS technology still requires additional energy input to perform electrolysis efficiently for H2 production. To address this challenge, recent research has focused on the development of rechargeable zinc-hydrazine (Zn-Hz) batteries.[\[14\]](#page-13-0) This novel Zn-Hz battery system is designed to harness two temporally distinct cathodic reactions: HER during the discharging process, which results in H2 production and electrical energy generation, and HzOR during the charging process, which leads to hydrazine degradation.[\[15\]](#page-13-0) Moreover, the cleavage of hydrazine is an exothermic reaction, releasing energy that can be reused by the system, significantly reducing the overall electricity consumption during charging. Consequently, the integration of a Zn-Hz battery with the OHzS system offers a significant advantage by supplying energy for self-powered H2 production.[\[16\]](#page-13-0) Nonetheless, the Zn-Hz battery requires a highly efficient dualfunctional electrocatalyst capable of catalyzing both HER and HzOR at the cathode during the charging and discharging processes, respectively. The development of such an electrocatalyst remains a significant challenge for the Zn-Hz battery system.

Extensive research attempts have been devoted to developing advanced dual-functional electrocatalysts for catalyzing both HER and HzOR.[\[17\]](#page-13-0) In recent decades, first-row 3*d* transition metals, involving Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, and Cu-based electrocatalysts, have garnered significant interest in various electrochemical applications. This interest is due to their abundant availability, cost-effectiveness, excellent electrocatalytic capabilities, and longterm stability.[\[18\]](#page-13-0) Specifically, NiCo alloy-based electrocatalysts have shown considerable promise for H2 production.[\[19\]](#page-13-0) This promise is attributed to the effective in situ transformation of Ni and Co metals into electrochemically active metal hydroxides/oxyhydroxides during electrochemical processes, involving multiple oxidation states (2+ and 3+).[\[20\]](#page-13-0) However, the electrocatalytic performance of NiCo alloy-based electrocatalysts does not fulfill the practical application standards, primarily because of their limited electrical conductivity and a restricted number of active metal sites. To address this, approaches such as element doping, surface morphology control, and adjustment of Ni/Co metal ratios have been investigated to enhance the catalytic activity of NiCo alloy electrocatalysts for use as dual-functional catalysts in both HER and HzOR.[\[21\]](#page-13-0) Among these strategies, doping with electrochemically active metals, especially Pt, into the NiCo alloy is particularly promising. The integration of Pt accelerates HER kinetics and plays a crucial role in enhancing HzOR kinetics.[\[22\]](#page-13-0)

Traditionally, metal alloys have been synthesized using chemical reduction methods or high-temperature pyrolysis under inert atmospheres.[\[22b,23\]](#page-13-0) However, these conventional techniques often necessitate the use of reducing and capping reagents, extended processing times, and sophisticated equipment. Such requirements escalate the production costs of electrocatalysts as well as impede the exposure of their active surface sites, leading to suboptimal catalytic performance. To overcome these limitations, this study employs a pulsed laser irradiation (PLI) strategy to synthesize trimetallic NiCoPt alloys. This method represents a relatively novel and innovative approach in the field of nanomaterials synthesis for diverse applications.[\[24\]](#page-13-0) This method offers several advantages over conventional methods such as eliminating the need for reducing/capping reagents, reducing synthesis period, simplifying the process, and requiring only basic instrumental setup.[\[25\]](#page-13-0)

In this research, we introduce an innovative technique for synthesizing trimetallic NiCoPt alloys using a pulsed laser methodology. This method utilizes bimetallic NiCo-oxides and Pt metal salt as precursors. The synthesized NiCoPt alloys demonstrated exceptional dual-functional capabilities for catalyzing both HER and HzOR. Notably, the optimized NiCoPt-10 catalyst attained a significantly low overpotential of 90 mV at 10 mA·cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for HER, along with an ultrasmall working potential of 0.068 V (vs RHE) at the same current density for HzOR. In particular, in situ Raman spectroscopy and theoretical density functional theory (DFT) analyses confirmed that the presence of Pt sites in NiCoPt enhances hydrogen adsorption/desorption during HER and accelerates the dehydrogenation of N2H4 intermediates during HzOR, thereby contributing to the dual-functional activity of the NiCoPt alloy catalyst. As a result, when the NiCoPt-10 catalyst was employed as both the cathode and anode in an OHzS system, it required only 0.295 V cell voltage at 10 mA·cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for H2 fuel evolution, markedly outperforming its efficiency in a conventional OWS system (1.689 V at 10 mA·cm<sup>−</sup>2). Remarkably, a Zn-Hz battery assembled with the dual-functional NiCoPt-10 catalyst as the cathode and Zn foil as the anode demonstrated 97% energy efficiency, coupled with efficient H2 production during the discharge process. Furthermore, integrating the Zn-Hz battery with the OHzS electrolyzer established a self-powered H2 production system, highlighting its promising potential for practical applications. Therefore, this study introduces a rapid and effective synthetic strategy for developing advanced electrocatalysts to enhance hydrogen production efficiency.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

## **2.1. Structural and Morphological Investigations**

The schematic of the fabrication process for NiCoPt alloy materials is shown in **Figure 1**[a.](#page-2-0) The diagram outlines the initial creation of the bimetallic NiCoO*<sup>x</sup>* precursor by a hydrothermal reaction, followed by an annealing process. Subsequently, the trimetallic NiCoPt alloy is synthesized through laser irradiation of NiCoO*<sup>x</sup>* and K2PtCl4 in an ethanol medium using a monochromatic laser beam. During this process, the ethanol undergoes photodissociation, producing ethyl and hydroxy radicals that act as effective reducing agents. These radicals aid in converting metal cations into zerovalent metals, thus facilitating the formation of NiCoPt alloy materials.[\[26\]](#page-13-0) Simultaneously, the intense monochromatic laser beam generates significant heat within the ethanol medium, melting the metals from the metal oxides and leading to alloy formation.[\[27\]](#page-13-0) This laser synthesis approach, distinct from conventional methods, eliminates the need for additional reducing or capping agents. This elimination of surfaceblocking agents is expected to remarkably enhance the electrocatalytic efficiency of the clean surface alloy materials.

The crystallinity and phase structure of the synthesized materials were thoroughly inspected through X-ray diffraction (XRD) measurements. Initially, the XRD patterns of the bimetallic NiCooxides are displayed in Figure S1 (Supporting Information), indicating a mixed phase of NiO and NiCo2O4 in the NiCoO*<sup>x</sup>* material.[\[28\]](#page-13-0) The diffraction peaks of NiCo2O*<sup>x</sup>* corresponded to the NiCo2O4 structure, whereas those of Ni2CoO*<sup>x</sup>* aligned with the NiO structure, indicating the influence of varying Co and

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) Schematic illustration of the synthesis process for the trimetallic NiCoPt alloy material. b) XRD patterns of different trimetallic NiCoPt alloy materials. c−f) XPS spectra of the NiCoO*<sup>x</sup>* precursor, NiCo alloy, and the optimized NiCoPt-10 material: c) survey spectra, d) Ni 2*p*, e) Co 2*p*, and f) Pt 4*f*.

Ni contents in the bimetallic NiCo-oxides. Post-PLI of these NiCo-oxides, all XRD patterns, presented in Figure S2 (Supporting Information), exhibited three distinct diffraction peaks at 44.09°, 51.42°, and 75.49°. These peaks were indicative of the (100), (200), and (220) planes of the face-centered cubic metallic (*fcc*) phase of Ni (PDF#04-0850) and Co (PDF#15-0806),[\[29\]](#page-13-0) confirming the effective transformation of NiCo-oxides into their corresponding NiCo alloy materials through PLI. Subsequently, the XRD patterns of the synthesized trimetallic NiCoPt alloys (Figure 1b) displayed three diffraction peaks consistent with the *fcc* metallic phase. As observed in Figure S3 (Supporting Information), a notable shift toward lower 2 angles with increasing Pt content suggested an expansion in the interatomic spacing of the NiCoPt alloy due to Pt integration within the NiCo lattice, without forming separate Pt nanoparticles. This finding affirmed the successful synthesis of NiCoPt alloys using laser-reduction technology.

Advanced X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analysis was executed on both NiCoO*<sup>x</sup>* and its derived NiCo alloy and NiCoPt-10 alloy to examine their valence states and elemental **[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-methods.com](http://www.small-methods.com)**

compositions, as illustrated in Figures [1c–f.](#page-2-0) The XPS survey spectra in Figure [1c](#page-2-0) indicated the existence of Ni, Co, and Pt elements in the NiCoPt-10 material. The Ni 2*p* XPS spectra in Figure [1d](#page-2-0) display two spin-orbit doublets with satellite peaks corresponding to Ni 2*p*3/2 and Ni 2*p*1/2 for all three materials. In NiCoO*x*, the first spin-orbit doublets at 854.1 and 871.4 eV correspond to Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>, while the second set at 856.1 and 873.0 eV is associated with Ni2<sup>+</sup>. In contrast, the NiCo alloy shows the first spin-orbit doublets at 853.6 and 870.7 eV, characteristic of metallic Ni<sup>0</sup> species.[\[30\]](#page-13-0) Notably, these metallic peaks shift slightly to lower binding energies at 852.7 and 869.9 eV in the NiCoPt-10 alloy. Additionally, the second set of spin-orbit doublets, observed ≈856.5 and 874.5 eV in both the NiCo alloy and NiCoPt-10 alloy, corresponds to Ni2+−O moieties, likely arising from surface oxidation of the material.[\[23a\]](#page-13-0) As depicted in Figure [1e,](#page-2-0) the Co 2*p* XPS spectra of all three materials exhibit two spin-orbit doublets with corresponding satellite peaks related to Co 2*p*3/2 and Co 2*p*1/2. In NiCoOx, the first spinorbit doublets at 779.4 and 794.6 eV correspond to Co<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>, while the second set at 781.0 and 796.2 eV relates to Co2<sup>+</sup>. [\[31\]](#page-13-0) In the NiCo alloy, the first spin-orbit doublets at 779.0 and 794.0 eV are indicative of metallic Co<sup>0</sup> species, which shift slightly to lower binding energies at 778.2 and 793.3 eV in the NiCoPt-10 alloy. The second doublets ≈781.0 and 796.9 eV in both the NiCo alloy and NiCoPt-10 alloy correspond to Co2+−O moieties, suggesting surface oxidation.[\[32\]](#page-13-0) The observed shifts in both metallic Ni0 and Co0 XPS peaks indicate that Pt incorporation induces significant electronic redistribution within the NiCoPt-10 alloy catalyst. The Pt 4*f* XPS spectra in Figure [1f](#page-2-0) display prominent peaks at 71.4 and 74.8 eV for the NiCoPt-10 alloy, signifying the Pt 4*f*7/2 and Pt 4*f*5/2 spin orbits of metallic Pt0, respectively.[\[33\]](#page-13-0) Additionally, lower intensity peaks at 72.9 and 76.0 eV are observed, matching to the Pt 4*f*7/2 and Pt 4*f*5/2 spin orbits of surface-oxidized Pt<sup>2</sup>+−O species along with a peak at 69.4 eV matched to the overlapping Ni 3*p* signal. These results verify the presence of metallic Co0, Ni0, and Pt0 in NiCoPt-10, substantiating the effective conversion of bimetallic NiCoO*<sup>x</sup>* and Pt<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> into the trimetallic NiCoPt alloy through the laser synthesis technique. Moreover, consistent with prior studies, the formation of oxygen-containing metal species owing to surface oxidation is known to enhance the overall electrochemical reaction efficiency of electrocatalysts.[\[34\]](#page-13-0)

The surface structure and elemental compositions of the synthesized materials were scrutinized through field emission scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM) and energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) measurements. Figures S4a−c (Supporting Information) showcases the FE-SEM and EDS mapping results of the synthesized bimetallic NiCo alloy, NiCo2 alloy, and Ni2Co alloy materials. These alloys displayed a uniform interconnected microparticle-like surface morphology, featuring a consistent distribution of Ni and Co elements. Notably, low levels of O elements, ≈2 wt%, were detected in all samples, indicative of surface oxidation of the alloys. Crucially, these results verified the precise maintenance of Ni and Co weight ratios in the synthesized NiCo alloys in accordance with their respective NiCo-oxides. This finding underscores the efficiency of the PLI process in preserving metal integrity during the conversion of metal oxides into alloys, demonstrating the utility of laser technology for practical applications. Subsequently, **Figures 2**[a–d](#page-4-0) depict the FE-SEM and EDS mapping results of various synthesized trimetallic NiCoPt alloys. These materials retained the uniform interconnected microparticle-like morphology, a critical feature for enhancing electrochemical activity through rapid electron and mass transport. EDS mapping proved the consistent presence of Ni, Co, and Pt elements within the interconnected microparticle structure. Similar to the bimetallic alloys, the presence of low O element levels in the NiCoPt alloys was attributed to surface oxidation. A linear increase in Pt content was observed, ranging from 6.69 to 14.63 wt%, as the concentration of Pt salt increased from 4 to 10 μmol. Notably, the NiCoPt-10 alloy contained only 14.63 wt% Pt, with the balance being transition metals, confirming its suitability for real-life applications. As depicted in Figure [2e,](#page-4-0) transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and EDS results of the NiCoPt-10 alloy further confirm its interconnected microparticle-like structure, characterized by densely distributed Ni, Co, and Pt elements throughout the alloy with only a slight presence of surface oxygen. These characterizations collectively highlight the practical applicability of the synthesized alloys and underscore the effectiveness of the laser technology employed in the alloying process.

#### **2.2. Electrochemical Analyses**

#### *2.2.1. Half-Cell HER Performance*

The electrochemical HER performance of the synthesized materials was surveyed using a universal of three-electrode half-cell setup in a 1 M KOH electrolyte (Figure S5, Supporting Information). Initially, the HER performance of synthesized bimetallic alloy materials, such as NiCo alloy, NiCo2 alloy, and Ni2Co alloy, was assessed to determine an optimal Ni/Co ratio for HER, before the integration of Pt into NiCo alloys. The HER results for these materials (Figures S6a,b, Supporting Information) indicated that the NiCo alloy, with an equimolar ratio of Ni and Co, demonstrated higher HER performance. It exhibited a lesser overpotential of 281 mV at 10 mA·cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> compared to the NiCo2 alloy (315 mV) and Ni2Co alloy (348 mV) alloys. However, the introduction of highly active Pt metal was necessary for NiCo alloy, as its HER performance was significantly less effective compared to the commercial Pt/C catalyst. Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) results of the synthesized trimetallic NiCoPt alloys, conducted at a sweep speed of 5 mV·s<sup>−</sup>1, are presented in **Figure 3**[a.](#page-5-0) The incorporation of Pt into the NiCo alloy markedly enhanced the HER performance. Furthermore, the HER reaction kinetics of the synthesized alloys were analyzed by calculating the Tafel slope from the LSV curves, as illustrated in Figures [3b](#page-5-0) and S7 (Supporting Information). Among all alloys tested, the NiCoPt-10 alloy displayed the lowest Tafel slope of 73 mV·dec<sup>−</sup>1, in contrast to the bimetallic NiCo alloy with a Tafel slope of 197 mV·dec<sup>−</sup>1, indicating faster reaction kinetics for HER according to the Volmer–Tafel mechanism. This finding suggests that the synergistic interaction of Pt with the NiCo alloy improved water dissociation, altering the rate determining step (RDS) from the Heyrovsky to the Tafel reaction, thereby enhancing the HER performance. As depicted in Figure [3c,](#page-5-0) the NiCoPt-10 alloy exhibited the most outstanding HER performance among the trimetallic NiCoPt alloys, with the lowest overpotential (90 mV at 10 mA·cm<sup>−</sup>2) and smallest Tafel slope (73 mV·dec<sup>−</sup>1), which is comparable to the Pt/C catalyst (32 mV at 10 mA·cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and 53 mV·dec<sup>−</sup>1). The mass activity values

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a–d) FE-SEM images and corresponding EDS mapping results for a) NiCoPt-4, b) NiCoPt-6, c) NiCoPt-8, and d) NiCoPt-10 materials. e) TEM image and EDS mapping of the NiCoPt-10 material.

of the synthesized alloy materials, as depicted in Figure S8 (Supporting Information), reveal that the NiCoPt-10 alloy offered the higher mass activity of 33.86 A·g‒<sup>1</sup> at a potential of ‒0.2 V versus RHE among all synthesized materials. Similarly, Figure S9 (Supporting Information) presents the calculated turnover frequency (TOF) of these alloys, determined from their active sites as measured by cyclic voltammetry (CV) curves (Figures S10a–f, Supporting Information). Notably, among all synthesized mate-

rials, NiCoPt-10 displayed the greatest TOF value of 3.97 s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> at a potential of ‒0.2 V versus RHE. The superior mass activity and TOF values in the trimetallic NiCoPt-10 alloy confirm that the optimal integration of Pt into the NiCo alloy markedly improved its intrinsic catalytic activity for HER.[\[35\]](#page-13-0)

Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy was conducted to investigate the kinetics at the electrode-electrolyte interface during HER. The Nyquist plots of the synthesized alloy materials,

<span id="page-5-0"></span>Figure 3. HER performance of laser-synthesized NiCo alloy and various NiCoPt alloys: a) LSV curves, b) Tafel plots, c) comparison of overpotentials at 10 mA·cm<sup>-2</sup> and Tafel slopes, d) Nyquist plots with fitted EEC model, e) multi-current stability test, and f) long-term HER stability of NiCoPt-10 at 10 mA·cm<sup>-2</sup> over 50 h.

measured at -0.1 V versus RHE during HER, along with the corresponding fitted electrical equivalent circuit (EEC) model, are shown in Figure 3d. The EEC model identifies a solution resistance (R<sub>s</sub>) in the high-frequency region and a charge-transfer resistance  $(R_{ct})$  in the low-frequency region, along with a constant phase element (CPE) representing the double-layer capacitance. Notably, the optimized NiCoPt-10 alloy exhibited a significantly lower  $R_{ct}$  of 4.8  $\Omega$ , compared to NiCoPt-4 (27.5  $\Omega$ ), NiCoPt-6 (18.4  $\Omega$ ), NiCoPt-8 (9.2  $\Omega$ ), and NiCo (132.3  $\Omega$ ), indicating rapid chargetransfer kinetics, attributed to its superior electrical conductivity. Additionally, the electron lifetime ( $\tau_e$ ) was calculated from the Bode plots presented in Figure S11 (Supporting Information) using the formula  $\tau_e = 1/(2\pi f_{\text{max}})$ , where  $f_{\text{max}}$  represents the maximum frequency peak. [24c] The NiCoPt-10 alloy exhibited a shorter electron relaxation time of 5.63 ms compared to other synthesized alloys, contributing to its enhanced HER performance. The long-term stability of a catalyst is essential for practical applications. Therefore, the durability of the optimized NiCoPt-10 catalyst for HER was assessed with the chronopotentiometry (CP) analysis. Figure 3e displays the multicurrent CP test results of the NiCoPt-10 catalyst at various current densities, displaying an increase in overpotential with rising current densities. Despite this, the catalyst maintained a stable overpotential over time at each current density, indicating good HER stability. Furthermore, Figure 3f demonstrates that the NiCoPt-10 catalyst exhibited no significant changes after continuous HER operation for 50 h at 10 mA·cm<sup>-2</sup>, highlighting its magnificent long-term stability. The structural and morphological stability of the NiCoPt-10 catalyst post-HER testing was also evaluated through ex situ XRD patterns, Raman spectra, and FE-SEM with EDS mapping. As portrayed in Figure S12 (Supporting Information), the ex situ XRD pattern of the NiCoPt-10 catalyst remained unchanged after HER testing, confirming its structural robustness. Similarly, the ex situ Raman spectra in Figure \$13 (Supporting Information) revealed no formation of transition metal oxide intermediates in the NiCoPt-10 catalyst post-HER testing, suggesting that the incorporated Pt metal predominantly functioned as active sites in the HER process. FE-SEM and EDS mapping images (Figure \$14, Supporting Information) revealed that the NiCoPt-10 catalyst preserved its original interconnected microparticle morphology, with clear detection of Ni, Co, Pt, and surface O elements after 50 h of HER stability testing. Additionally, the XPS spectra of Ni 2p, Co 2p, and Pt 4f for the NiCoPt-10 catalyst (Figures S15a-c, Supporting Information) displayed nearly identical metal valence states before and after HER testing, further corroborating the catalyst's structural stability. Collectively, these HER testing results demonstrate that the optimized NiCoPt-10 alloy exhibits exceptional HER performance, attributed to its interconnected structure, high electrical conductivity, and the presence of energetically favorable Pt sites. Consequently, the NiCoPt-10 alloy showcased improved HER performance compared to certain published electrocatalysts, as summarized in Table S1 (Supporting Information).

#### 2.2.2. Half-Cell HzOR Performance

The electrochemical performance of the synthesized materials for HzOR was explored using the same three-electrode half-cell configuration in a 1 M KOH/0.5 M  $\rm N_2H_4$  solution. Initially, the HzOR performance of the synthesized bimetallic NiCo alloy, NiCo<sub>2</sub> alloy, and Ni<sub>2</sub>Co alloy materials was assessed to

Figure 4. HER and HzOR performance of laser-synthesized NiCo alloy and various NiCoPt alloys: a) LSV curves, b) Tafel plots, c) comparison of overpotentials at 10 mA·cm<sup>-2</sup> and Tafel slopes, d) Nyquist plots with fitted EEC model, e) multi-current stability, and f) long-term HzOR stability of NiCoPt-10 at 10 mA·cm<sup>-2</sup> over 50 h.

determine an optimal composition for the NiCoPt alloy aimed at enhancing HzOR kinetics. As depicted in Figures \$16a,b (Supporting Information), the NiCo alloy with an equimolar ratio of Ni and Co achieved a working potential of 0.135 V versus RHE at 10 mA·cm<sup>-2</sup> for HzOR, which was lower than those of NiCo<sub>2</sub> alloy (0.149 V vs RHE) and Ni<sub>2</sub>Co alloy (0.170 V vs RHE). This finding signified the higher electrocatalytic activity of NiCo alloy for HzOR. The LSV plots of the synthesized trimetallic alloys for HzOR are displayed in Figure 4a, revealing a significant reduction in working potential upon Pt integration into the NiCo alloy, with the NiCoPt-10 catalyst demonstrating notably enhanced electrocatalytic activity. Additionally, the Pt/C catalyst shows a higher current density in the lower potential region, suggesting its HzOR activity initiates at a lower potential. However, as the potential increases, its current density diminishes, likely due to the obstruction of active sites by hydrazine degradation intermediates. In contrast, this decline is not observed in the NiCoPt alloy catalysts, potentially due to the synergistic interaction among Ni, Co, and Pt sites during the HzOR process. Tafel plots (Figures 4b) and \$17, Supporting Information) further confirm that NiCoPt-10 exhibits the lowest Tafel slope among the synthesized alloys, indicating faster reaction kinetics for HzOR. Among the various trimetallic alloys, NiCoPt-10 achieved an exceptionally low working potential of 0.068 V versus RHE at 10 mA·cm<sup>-2</sup> and a small Tafel slope of 65 mV·dec<sup>-1</sup>, reflecting superior HzOR performance compared to the Pt/C catalyst (0.123 V vs RHE and 123 mV·dec<sup>-1</sup>), as shown in Figure 4c. Further analysis of the intrinsic properties of the synthesized materials for HzOR was conducted by evaluating their mass activity and TOF, as illustrated in Figures S18 and S19 (Supporting Information), respectively. These figures demonstrate that the NiCoPt-10 alloy provided the

higher mass activity of 43.8  $A \cdot g^{-1}$  and TOF value of 6.14 s<sup>-1</sup> at a potential of 0.2 V versus RHE compared to the other synthesized alloys, indicating its increased intrinsic activity for HzOR.

Following electrochemical testing, Nyquist plots obtained during the HzOR process at 0.05 V versus RHE, along with the fitted EEC model, are shown in Figure 4d. From these fitted Nyquist plots, the  $R_{ct}$  values of the synthesized alloy materials were found to increase in the order: NiCoPt-10 (4.3  $\Omega$ ) < NiCoPt-8 < (5.0  $\Omega$ ) < NiCoPt-6 (5.6  $\Omega$ ) < NiCoPt-4 (7.7  $\Omega$ ) < NiCo (54.2  $\Omega$ ). The notably low  $R_{ct}$  of the NiCoPt-10 alloy indicates its superior electron transfer capability at the electrode-electrolyte interface, thus enhancing HzOR kinetics.<sup>[17c]</sup> The Bode plots, as depicted in Figure S20 (Supporting Information), further demonstrate the rapid chargetransfer ability of the NiCoPt-10 alloy owing to its low electron relaxation time of 4.80 ms. Similar to HER, the integration of Pt into the NiCo alloy significantly improved its electrical conductivity and accelerated electrode kinetics during HzOR, resulting in enhanced overall HzOR performance. For practical application assessment of the NiCoPt-10 alloy in HzOR, multicurrent CP testing was performed at various current densities, as depicted in Figure 4e. The potential required for HzOR increased with escalating current densities. A gradual increase in potential over time within each current density was observed, attributed to the degradation of hydrazine in the electrolyte. Consequently, the long-term stability of the NiCoPt-10 catalyst for HzOR at 10 mA·cm<sup>-2</sup> over 50 h is displayed in Figure 4f. The results show a gradual increase in potential during continued HzOR over the first 25 h, attributed to the depletion of hydrazine concentration. However, after replacing the electrolyte, the potential stabilizes back to its initial value, followed by a gradual increase up to 50 h, demonstrating the good stability of the NiCoPt-10 catalyst for

<span id="page-7-0"></span>Figure 5. OHzS performance of the NiCoPt-10||NiCoPt-10|| electrolyzer: a) LSV plots for both OHzS and OWS processes. b) Multicurrent stability during the OHzS process. c) Long-term stability during both OHzS and OWS processes. d) Quantification of  $H_2$  and  $N_2$  gases produced during OHzS at a cell voltage of 0.5 V. e) Schematic representation of the assembled OHzS electrolyzer.

HzOR. Additionally, ex situ XRD patterns of the NiCoPt-10 catalyst, depicted in Figure S21 (Supporting Information), confirmed its structural stability post HzOR testing, with no new diffraction peaks observed. Meanwhile, the ex situ Raman spectra of the NiCoPt-10 catalyst, depicted in Figure S22 (Supporting Information), revealed no new Raman peaks observed post-HzOR testing. SEM and EDS mapping images (Figure \$23, Supporting Information) show that the surface morphology of the NiCoPt-10 catalyst remained largely intact, with clear detection of Ni, Co, Pt, and surface O elements, maintaining the alloy's integrity. Moreover, the XPS spectra of Ni 2p, Co 2p, and Pt 4f for the NiCoPt-10 catalyst (Figures S24a-c, Supporting Information) show negligible differences in metal valence states before and after HzOR testing, affirming its structural stability. Table S2 (Supporting Information) further highlights the superior HzOR performance of the NiCoPt-10 alloy in comparison to the previously reported electrocatalysts. These HzOR results demonstrate that the NiCoPt-10 alloy exhibits outstanding electrocatalytic activity for the cathodic HER as well as for the anodic HzOR, thereby confirming its dualfunctional capabilities.

We conducted electrochemical surface area (ECSA) measurements, which is a critical analysis for exploring the intrinsic activity of synthesized alloy materials. Thus, CV measurements were performed in the non-Faradaic region at various scan rates varying from 10 to 100 mV·s<sup>-1</sup>, as illustrated in Figures S25a–e (Supporting Information). The plots of  $(\Delta j)/2$  versus scan rates, depicted in Figure S26 (Supporting Information), indicated that the double-layer capacitance (C<sub>dl</sub>) value followed an increasing trend in the following order: NiCo (3.4 mF·cm<sup>-2</sup>) < NiCoPt-4 (5.5 mF·cm<sup>-2</sup>) < NiCoPt-6 (6.0 mF·cm<sup>-2</sup>) < NiCoPt-8 (6.1

mF·cm<sup>-2</sup>) < NiCoPt-10 (6.2 mF·cm<sup>-2</sup>). This observation suggests a notable enhancement in the  $C_{dl}$  value from bimetallic to trimetallic alloy materials. The high  $C_{dl}$  value of the NiCoPt-10 alloy signifies a large ECSA, delivering more accessible active sites for accelerating electrochemical reaction kinetics. Furthermore, the superior performance of the NiCoPt-10 alloy in both HER and HzOR can be ascribed to its interconnected surface morphology, magnificent electrical conductivity, enhanced ECSA, increased accessibility of active sites, and the effective integration of Pt metal within the NiCo alloy network. As a result, Figure S27 (Supporting Information) shows a potential coincidence region of  $\approx$ 168 mV achieved between the HER and HzOR processes at 10 mA·cm<sup>-2</sup> for the NiCoPt-10 alloy, suggesting an effective reduction in the applied cell voltage for efficient  $H_2$  production.

## 2.2.3. OHzS Performance of NiCoPt-10 as Dual-Functional Electrocatalyst

To inspect the dual-functional activity of the synthesized NiCoPt-10 catalyst in efficient  $\rm H_2$  production, an alkaline OHzS electrolyzer was constructed with a NiCoPt-10||NiCoPt-10 configuration, using a mixture of 1 M KOH/0.5 M  $\rm N_2H_4$  as the electrolyte (Figure S28, Supporting Information). For comparison, an OWS electrolyzer was built with the same NiCoPt-10||NiCoPt-10 configuration, but utilizing only 1 M KOH as the electrolyte. As demonstrated in **Figure 5**a, LSV plots at a sweep speed of 5 mV·s $^{-1}$  indicated that the NiCoPt-10||NiCoPt-10 OHzS electrolyzer required significantly lower cell voltages of 0.295 V and

<span id="page-8-0"></span>**Figure 6.** a) Schematic illustration of the in situ Raman setup used for electrochemical measurements. b,c) In situ Raman spectra of the b) NiCo alloy and c) NiCoPt-10 electrodes during the HER in a 1 m KOH electrolyte. d,e) In situ Raman spectra of the (d) NiCo alloy and (e) NiCoPt-10 electrodes during HzOR in a 1 M KOH/0.5 m N2H4 electrolyte.

1.030 V to succeed 10 and 100 mA·cm<sup>−</sup>2, respectively. In contrast, the OWS process required 1.689 V and 2.268 V to reach the same current densities. Notably, the OHzS electrolyzer demonstrated substantial energy savings, reducing the cell voltage by 1.394 V at 10 mA·cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for H2 production compared to the conventional OWS electrolyzer. Figure S29 (Supporting Information) compares the cell voltages of OHzS and OWS at various current densities, underscoring the significant energy efficiency of the OHzS process for H2 production. The stability of the NiCoPt-10||NiCoPt-10 electrolyzer during OHzS was further examined through multicurrent CP measurements at various current densities, as presented in Figure [5b.](#page-7-0) This confirmed consistent cell voltage levels over time within each current density, indicating catalytic stability. Additionally, Figure [5c](#page-7-0) illustrates the excellent long-term stability of the NiCoPt-10||NiCoPt-10 electrolyzer during both the OHzS and OWS processes over 50 h at 10 mA·cm<sup>−</sup>2. The quantities of H2 at the cathode and N2 at the anode generated by the NiCoPt-10||NiCoPt-10 electrolyzer during OHzS at a low cell voltage of 0.5 V were measured using gas chromatography, as shown in Figure [5d.](#page-7-0) A linear increase in H2 and N2 gases production was observed over time, yielding 0.287 mmol of H2 and 0.160 mmol of N2 within 60 min of OHzS. This result underscores the potential of the NiCoPt-10||NiCoPt-10 electrolyzer for low-voltage-driven H2 production, while simultaneously degrading hydrazine pollutants into non-toxic N2 during the OHzS process. Figure [5e](#page-7-0) provides a schematic representation of the reactions occurring at the cathode (HER) and anode (HzOR) in the NiCoPt-10||NiCoPt-10 electrolyzer during the OHzS process. These results emphasize the potential of the OHzS electrolyzer, equipped with the laser-produced NiCoPt-10 alloy as both anode and cathode, for energy-efficient and effective H2 fuel production.

#### *2.2.4. In situ Raman Spectroscopy Investigations*

To further understand the origin of the dual-functional activity of the NiCoPt-10 catalyst during the HER and HzOR processes, real-time changes on the NiCoPt-10 electrode surface were investigated through in situ Raman spectroscopy. The setup for this measurement is schematically presented in **Figure 6**a. The in situ Raman spectra of the NiCo and NiCoPt-10 electrodes, recorded during HER at various potentials ranging from 0 to ‒0.25 V versus RHE, are shown in Figures 6b,c, respectively. Notably, two new Raman peaks appeared at 1128 and 1514 cm<sup>−</sup>1, attributed to M–OH and M–H2O (where M = Ni, Co, and Pt), respectively.[\[36\]](#page-13-0) The intensities of these peaks increased significantly with the applied potential for the NiCoPt-10 electrode compared to the NiCo alloy, indicating that Pt incorporation enhances the adsorption of \*OH and \*H2O species on the catalyst surface at lower potentials. According to previous studies, HER performance of electrocatalysts in alkaline media is strongly influenced by the water dissociation rate and the adsorption of \*OH on the electrode surface. Therefore, the presence of Pt sites in the NiCoPt alloy significantly boosts \*OH adsorption and water dissociation rates, thereby enhancing HER activity in the

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**Figure 7.** a) DFT-optimized structural models of the NiCo and NiCoPt alloy catalysts. b) Charge density distribution across the NiCoPt alloy catalyst. c) TDOS for the NiCo alloy catalyst. d) TDOS for the NiCoPt alloy catalyst. e) Gibbs free energy profiles for HER on the NiCoPt alloy catalyst. f) Gibbs free energy profiles for HzOR on the NiCoPt alloy catalyst. g) DFT-proposed mechanism for HzOR at the Co site of the NiCoPt alloy catalyst.

NiCoPt-10 catalyst.[\[37\]](#page-13-0) Additionally, Figures [6d,e](#page-8-0) show the in situ Raman spectra of the NiCo and NiCoPt-10 electrodes during HzOR at potentials ranging from 0–0.1 V versus RHE, respectively. A new Raman peak at 1076 cm‒<sup>1</sup> was observed for NiCoPt-10, with its intensity increasing gradually as the applied potential rose, which corresponds to the N‒N stretching modes of surface-adsorbed \*N2H4 intermediates.[\[38\]](#page-13-0) This peak was only faintly detected for the NiCo alloy, even at higher potentials. Furthermore, two additional Raman peaks at 1355 and 1583 cm‒<sup>1</sup> for NiCoPt-10 at higher potentials were ascribed to the N‒N stretching vibrations of N2 molecules and the N‒H bending mode of surface-adsorbed \*NH2 intermediates, respectively. This finding suggests that the presence of Pt sites in the NiCoPt alloy provide additional active sites for the strong adsorption of N2H4 molecules at lower potentials, effectively promoting the oxidation of N2H4 into N2 and enhancing HzOR activity.[\[20b\]](#page-13-0) Overall, the in situ Raman results suggest that the introduction of Pt in the NiCoPt alloy plays a crucial role in improving both HER and HzOR activities.

#### *2.2.5. Theoretical DFT Investigations*

Theoretical DFT calculations were conducted to provide a deeper understanding of the superior dual-functional HER and HzOR activity of the NiCoPt alloy catalyst. The DFT-optimized structural models of the NiCo and NiCoPt alloy catalysts are shown in **Figures 7**a andS30 (Supporting Information). These figures confirm the effective incorporation of additional active Pt metal sites into the NiCo alloy structure. As presented in Figure 7b, the introduced Pt induces extensive charge redistribution across the NiCoPt alloy models, accredited to the robust electronic interactions between the introduced Pt atoms and the existing Ni and Co atoms.[\[16a\]](#page-13-0) The resulting electronic reconstruction within the NiCoPt alloy optimizes the adsorption energies of reactive species during the HER and HzOR processes, thus advancing the dual-functional activity of the NiCoPt alloy catalyst. Furthermore, the total density of states (TDOS) for the NiCo alloy (Figure 7c) and NiCoPt alloy (Figure 7d) indicates a greater spread of the TDOS across the Fermi level in the NiCoPt alloy compared to the

**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.small-methods.com](http://www.small-methods.com)**

23669608, 2025, 3, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smtd.202401709 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

NiCo alloy. This demonstrates that the introduction of Pt into the NiCo alloy increases the electrical conductivity of the NiCoPt alloy catalyst.[\[14a,24c\]](#page-13-0) Consequently, the NiCoPt alloy catalyst exhibits faster charge transfer kinetics, thereby boosting catalytic activity in both HER and HzOR processes. To further evaluate the catalytic activity of the NiCoPt alloy toward HER and HzOR, Gibbs free energy (ΔG) calculations were performed. The hydrogen adsorption free energy (ΔGH\*) is a crucial factor in determining the HER activity of the catalyst, with values closer to zero indicating better catalytic performance.[\[12a\]](#page-13-0) As shown in Figure [7e,](#page-9-0) the free energy plots for HER indicate that the ΔGH\* values for the Ni, Co, and Pt sites in the NiCoPt alloy are −0.51, −0.32, and −0.12 eV, respectively, while Figure S31 (Supporting Information) shows the ΔGH\* values for the Ni and Co sites in the NiCo alloy as −0.67 and −0.41 eV. These results indicate that the Pt site in the NiCoPt alloy has a ΔGH\* value closest to the optimal 0 eV, suggesting that Pt incorporation provides more favorable conditions for H\* adsorption/desorption kinetics, thus enhancing HER performance.

For HzOR, Figure [7f](#page-9-0) presents the ΔG values for the Ni, Co and Pt sites in the NiCoPt alloy during the five-step N2H4 dehydrogenation process: \*N2H4 → \*N2H3, \*N2H3 → \*N2H2, \*N2H2 → \*N2H1, \*N2H1 → \*N2 and \*N2 → N2. [\[39\]](#page-13-0) The results indicate that N2H4 adsorption on the Co site of the NiCoPt alloy is thermodynamically more favorable with a lower ΔG value (0.39 eV) compared to the Ni site (0.44 eV) and Pt site (0.55 eV). Specifically, the RDS of the HzOR process is the dehydrogenation from \*N2H3 to \*N2H2, where the Co site has a lower ΔG value (0.51 eV) than the Ni site (0.59 eV) and Pt site (0.72 eV). Additionally, the Co site exhibits a lower ΔG value of 0.45 eV for the dehydrogenation from \*N2H2 to \*N2H compared to the Ni site (0.59 eV) and Pt site (0.85 eV). These outcomes suggest that the low energy barriers at the Co site in the NiCoPt alloy. In addition, Figure S32 (Supporting Information) provides the ΔG values for N2H4 dehydrogenation steps at Ni and Co sites in the NiCo alloy during HzOR. A notable reduction in ΔG values for \*N2H4 adsorption and \*N2 desorption to N2 at Ni and Co sites in the NiCoPt alloy compared to the NiCo alloy highlights the role of Pt incorporation in facilitating these steps and thereby enhancing HzOR activity. These findings imply that both Co and Pt sites in the NiCoPt alloy play significant roles in the HzOR process.[\[12b,17b\]](#page-13-0) Figure [7g](#page-9-0) further illustrates the DFT-predicted step-wise dehydrogenation of N2N4 on the Co site in the NiCoPt alloy during HzOR. Overall, the DFT investigations suggest that modulating the electronic properties of the NiCoPt alloy through Pt addition effectively optimizes H\* adsorption/desorption kinetics for HER while reducing energy barriers for N2N4 dehydrogenation during HzOR. This modification enhances the electrocatalytic performance of the NiCoPt alloy in catalyzing both HER and HzOR.

#### *2.2.6. Assembling and Electrochemical Performance of Zn-Hz Battery*

Given the excellent dual-functional HER/HzOR activity of the NiCoPt-10 catalyst, a rechargeable Zn-Hz battery was made using Zn foil as the anode and the NiCoPt-10 catalyst as the cathode. In this Zn-Hz battery system, the anode and cathode were immersed in separate electrolyte solutions:1 m KOH containing 0.02 M Zn(CH3COO)2 at the anode and 1 M KOH containing 0.5 M N2H4 at the cathode, divided by an anion exchange membrane (AEM).[\[14b,16a\]](#page-13-0) A real photograph of the obtained Zn-Hz battery is shown in Figure S33 (Supporting Information). During the discharge process, HER occurs at the cathode, leading to H2 production, while Zn is oxidized to Zn<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> at the anode, facilitating electron transfer. In the charging process, HzOR takes place at the cathode, resulting in the degradation of hydrazine into N2 gas, while Zn2<sup>+</sup> is reduced back to Zn metal at the anode.[\[14a\]](#page-13-0) As shown in **Figure 8**[a,](#page-11-0) the Zn-Hz battery successfully maintained an open circuit voltage (OCV) of 0.377 V over 1 h, demonstrating the effectiveness of the NiCoPt-10 catalyst in Zn-Hz battery applications. Furthermore, Figure [8b](#page-11-0) presents the discharge and charge polarization plots of the Zn-Hz battery, indicating a slow decrease in discharge voltage and a gradual increase in charge voltage with increasing current densities, verifying its practical utility in H2 production.[\[15a\]](#page-13-0) Remarkably, the voltage gap between charge and discharge was only 0.031 V at 0.1 mA·cm‒<sup>2</sup> and increased marginally to 0.078 V at 0.5 mA·cm‒2, demonstrating the excellent rechargeability of the Zn-Hz battery. Subsequently, the charge/discharge performance of the Zn-Hz battery at different current densities from 0.2 to 8 mA·cm‒2, is shown in Figures [8c](#page-11-0) and S34 (Supporting Information). These figures depict a gradual decrease in discharge voltage and a gradual increase in charge voltage with increasing current density, further illustrating its practicality as a rechargeable battery. Specifically, at a current density of 0.2 mA·cm‒2, the Zn-Hz battery achieved discharge and charge voltages of 0.374 V and 0.383 V, respectively, reaching a high energy efficiency of ≈97%, calculated as (discharge voltage/charge voltage) × 100%. Furthermore, Figure S35 (Supporting Information) shows the rate capability of the Zn-Hz battery, revealing consistent discharge across current densities from 0.2 to 8 mA·cm‒2. The battery retained nearly 96% of its voltage when the current density returned to 0.5 mA·cm‒<sup>2</sup> after constant discharge at various current densities, indicating strong rate performance. Moreover, Figure [8d](#page-11-0) demonstrates the excellent cyclic stability of the Zn-Hz battery over 100 cycles (35 h) at 5 mA·cm‒2, with minimal voltage variations observed. These results suggest that the assembled Zn-Hz battery exhibits excellent energy efficiency and cyclic stability, confirming its practical applications. Notably, the outstanding performance of the NiCoPt-10 catalyst in both the OHzS and Zn-Hz battery systems enabled the integration of these two systems to achieve self-powered H2 production.[\[14b,15b\]](#page-13-0) As displayed in Figure [8e,](#page-11-0) during the day, H2 produced from the OHzS system and charges the Zn-Hz battery using renewable energy sources. At night, the charged Zn-Hz battery powers the OHzS system, resulting in H2 production from the cathodes of both systems and the degradation of hydrazine sewage at the anode of the OHzS system. An optical image of this integrated system for self-powered H2 production is presented in Figure S36 (Supporting Information). Consequently, the superior dual-functional activity of the NiCoPt alloy in catalyzing both HER and HzOR enables the production of H2 and the degradation of toxic hydrazine waste into eco-friendly N2 gas through a self-powered system.

<span id="page-11-0"></span>**Figure 8.** Performance of the Zn–Hz battery: a) real-time OCV measurement of the Zn–Hz battery over 1 h, monitored in real-time using a multimeter. b) Discharge and charge polarization curves. c) Galvanostatic discharge/charge curves at different current densities. d) Galvanostatic discharge/charge cycling curves at 5 mA·cm<sup>−</sup>2. e) Schematic illustration of the self-powered H2 production system achieved by integrating the Zn-Hz battery with the OHzS.

## **3. Conclusion**

In summary, we have proposed a simple and cost-effective strategy to synthesize trimetallic NiCoPt alloys using PLI of a mixture of NiCoO*<sup>x</sup>* and Pt salt in an ethanol solution. In this innovative approach, ethanol serves both as the solvent and as a source of reducing agents generated through its decomposition under laser irradiation, thereby eliminating the need for external reducing agents. During the PLI process, the mixed NiCoO*<sup>x</sup>* and Pt<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> in ethanol are reduced, leading to the formation of trimetallic NiCoPt alloy materials. These laser-produced NiCoPt alloys demonstrated exceptional electrocatalytic performance in catalyzing both HER and HzOR in an alkaline electrolyte. Notably, the optimized NiCoPt-10 alloy required only a low overpotential of 90 mV at 10 mA·cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for HER in a 1 m KOH electrolyte, while exhibiting an extremely low working potential of 0.068 V versus RHE at the same current density for HzOR in a 1 m KOH/0.5 m N2H4 electrolyte. As a result, the assembled NiCoPt-10||NiCoPt-10 electrolyzer operated at only 0.295 V to supply 10 mA·cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> in OHzS, which is nearly 1.4 V lower than its performance in OWS. Furthermore, the remarkable dual-functionality of the NiCoPt-10 electrocatalyst facilitated the creation of a Zn-Hz battery by pairing the NiCoPt-10 catalyst as the cathode with Zn foil as the anode. This battery achieved 97% energy efficiency while producing efficient H2 fuel. Consequently, the integration of the Zn-Hz battery with the OHzS electrolyzer enabled a self-powered system for concurrent H2 production, highlighting significant advancements in large-scale H2 fuel production for practical applications. Importantly, both in situ Raman spectroscopy results and theoretical DFT calculations underscored

small methods

<span id="page-12-0"></span>the crucial role of Pt sites in achieving the dual-functional activity of the NiCoPt alloy catalyst. This effectiveness is likely due to the optimization of hydrogen adsorption/desorption during the HER process, as well as the stabilization of  $\rm N_2H_4$  dehydrogenation intermediates and the reduction of the energy barrier of the RDS during the HzOR process. Overall, this study introduces a promising pulsed laser synthesis technique for the development of various alloy materials, with potential applications across multiple domains.

#### 4. Experimental Section

Required Chemicals: Nickel (II) chloride hexahydrate (NiCl $_2$ .6H $_2$ O, 96%) was obtained from Yakuri Pure Chemicals, South Korea. Cobalt (II) chloride hexahydrate (CoCl $_2$ .6H $_2$ O, 98.5%), absolute ethanol (C $_2$ H $_5$ OH, 99.9%), and potassium hydroxide (KOH, 93%) were sourced from Daejung Chemicals, South Korea. Potassium tetrachloroplatinate (K $_2$ PtCl $_4$ ), hydrazine hydrate (N $_2$ H $_4$ :xH $_2$ O, 50–60%) and zinc acetate dihydrate (Zn(CH $_3$ COO) $_2$ ·2H $_2$ O, 99%) were obtained from Sigma-Aldrich, USA. Hexamethylenetetramine (HMTA, C $_6$ H $_1$ 2N $_4$ , 99%) was acquired from Alfa Aesar, USA. These chemicals were employed as procured excluding any purification.

Synthesis of Bimetallic NiCoO<sub>x</sub> Precursor: The bimetallic NiCoO<sub>x</sub> precursor was synthesized from a hydrothermal reaction and then, an annealing process. To this end, 0.3 mmol each of NiCl<sub>2</sub>.6H<sub>2</sub>O and CoCl<sub>2</sub>.6H<sub>2</sub>O, along with 2 mmol of HMTA, were dissolved in 30 mL of deionized water by magnetic stirring for 30 min. The reaction solution was then poured to an autoclave and heated at 100 °C for 12 h. The resultant product was collected by washing with water and ethanol, dried at 60 °C for 3 h, and subsequently annealed at 350 °C for 2 h to yield the bimetallic NiCoO<sub>x</sub> material. By varying the molar ratios of Ni and Co salts, NiCo<sub>2</sub>O<sub>x</sub> and Ni<sub>2</sub>CoO<sub>x</sub> were synthesized.

Synthesis of Trimetallic NiCoPt Alloys: To synthesize a series of trimetallic NiCoPt alloys, a rapid and efficient pulsed laser technology was employed, using bimetallic NiCoO $_{\rm x}$  and K $_{\rm 2}$ PtCl $_{\rm 4}$  salt as precursors. A fixed quantity of NiCoO $_{\rm x}$  (5 mg) and varying concentrations of K $_{\rm 2}$ PtCl $_{\rm 4}$  salt (4, 6, 8, and 10 µmol) were dispersed in 10 mL of absolute ethanol. This solution was subjected to pulsed laser irradiation (PLI) using a Nd:YAG, Surelite II-10 laser, with a wavelength of 532 nm, energy of 150 mJ, pulse width of 7 ns, and pulse rate of 10 Hz, for 30 min. Continuous stirring with a magnetic stirrer ensured uniform irradiation and complete transformation of the oxides into alloys. Post-PLI, the resultant NiCoPt alloys were washed with absolute ethanol and vacuum-dried at 60 °C for 3 h. The obtained trimetallic NiCoPt alloys, corresponding to the K $_{\rm 2}$ PtCl $_{\rm 4}$  salt concentrations of 4, 6, 8, and 10 µmol, were designated as NiCoPt-4, NiCoPt-6, NiCoPt-8, and NiCoPt-10, respectively.

Furthermore, using the same PLI process previously described, bimetallic NiCo alloy, NiCo $_2$  alloy, and Ni $_2$ Co alloy were synthesized from NiCoO $_x$ , NiCo $_2$ O $_x$ , and Ni $_2$ CoO $_x$ , respectively, without incorporating K $_2$ PtCl $_4$  salt. These bimetallic alloys with varied Ni and Co metal ratios were synthesized to optimize the content of these metals and develop a highly active trimetallic NiCoPt alloy electrocatalyst.

Electrochemical Assessments: The electrochemical assessments of the synthesized materials toward HER and HzOR were assessed using a CHI 708E electrochemical station (CH Instruments Inc, USA). A three-electrode cell was employed, wherein catalyst-loaded carbon cloth (CC), Hg/HgO electrode, and graphite rod were placed as the working, reference, and counter electrodes, respectively. A 1 m KOH solution was used as the electrolyte for HER, while a 1 m KOH solution containing 0.5 m N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> was used as the electrolyte for HzOR. To make the working electrode, 1 mg of catalyst and 0.5 mg of carbon black as a conductive support were uniformly dispersed under ultrasonication in a mixture of distilled water (190 μL), absolute ethanol (190 μL), and 5% Nafion solution (20 μL). The resultant catalyst ink was then meticulously drop-cast onto a CC substrate, which had been pre-treated with 0.5 m H<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> solution, and

subsequently vacuum-dried at 60 °C for 3 h. The obtained potentials (V vs Hg/HgO) were changed to the RHE potential using the formula:  $E_{\rm RHE} = E_{\rm Hg/HgO} + (0.0591 \times \rm pH) + 0.098$ , where  $E_{\rm Hg/HgO}$  denotes the obtained potential by Hg/HgO electrode and the pH of 1 M KOH is  $\approx$ 14. Further details on the electrochemical assessments are available in the supplementary information.

## **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

#### Acknowledgements

A.P.S.R., R.A.S., and C.J.M. contributed equally to this work. This research was supported by Korea Basic Science Institute (National research Facilities and Equipment Center) grant funded by the Ministry of Education (No. 2019R1A6C1010042) and the Glocal University 30 Project Fund of Gyeongsang National University in 2024. The authors acknowledge the financial support from National Research Foundation of Korea (NRF), (2022R1A2C2010686, 2022R1A4A3033528, 2022R111A1A01073299, RS-2024-00359478).

#### Conflict of Interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

#### Keywords

dual-functional electrocatalyst, efficient  $H_2$  production, hybrid water electrolyzer, pulsed laser synthesis, trimetallic NiCoPt alloy

Received: October 10, 2024 Revised: November 14, 2024 Published online: December 4, 2024 2366968, 2025, 3. Downloaded from https://onlinelbray.w.ieley.com/6/10.1002/smid.2024.01709 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelbrary.wiely.com/erms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for uses of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenses

- a) I. Staffell, D. Scamman, A. V. Abad, P. Balcombe, P. E. Dodds, P. Ekins, N. Shah, K. R. Ward, *Energy Environ. Sci.* 2019, 12, 463; b) S. Jung, R. A. Senthil, C. J. Moon, N. Tarasenka, A. Min, S. J. Lee, N. Tarasenko, M. Y. Choi, *Chem. Eng. J.* 2023, 468, 143717.
- [2] a) Y. Wei, J. Wang, Y. Shang, C. Lv, X. He, T. Wang, Z. Chen, L. Ji, S. Wang, J. Mater. Chem. A 2024, 12, 5294; b) C. He, Y. Wei, J. Xu, Y. Wei, T. Wang, R. Liu, L. Ji, Z. Liu, S. Wang, Nano Res. 2024, 17, 2528.
- [3] a) D. Tang, G.-L. Tan, G.-W. Li, J.-G. Liang, S. M. Ahmad, A. Bahadur, M. Humayun, H. Ullah, A. Khan, M. Bououdina, J. Energy Storage 2023, 64, 107196; b) C. E. Park, R. A. Senthil, G. H. Jeong, M. Y. Choi, Small 2023, 19, 2207820.
- [4] a) J. Gao, Y. Liu, B. Liu, K.-W. Huang, ACS Nano 2022, 16, 17761; b)
  X. Wang, H. Zhong, S. Xi, W. S. V. Lee, J. Xue, Adv. Mater. 2022, 34, 2107956
- [5] J. Li, C. Yao, X. Kong, Z. Li, M. Jiang, F. Zhang, X. Lei, ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng. 2019, 7, 13278.

23669688, 2023, 3, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/smd.202401709 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [0701/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/emrs-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles

are governed by the

applicable Creative Commons License

- <span id="page-13-0"></span>[6] Z. Li, Y. Yan, S.-M. Xu, H. Zhou, M. Xu, L. Ma, M. Shao, X. Kong, B. Wang, L. Zheng, H. Duan, Nat. Commun. 2022, 13, 147.
- [7] S. S. Naik, J. Theerthagiri, A. Min, C. J. Moon, S. J. Lee, M. Y. Choi, Appl. Catal., B 2023, 339, 123164.
- [8] X. Huang, O. Akdim, M. Douthwaite, K. Wang, L. Zhao, R. J. Lewis, S. Pattisson, I. T. Daniel, P. J. Miedziak, G. Shaw, *Nature* 2022, 603, 271
- [9] D. Chinnadurai, S. J. Lee, Y. Yu, S. Y. Nam, M. Y. Choi, Fuel 2022, 320, 123915
- [10] Y. Yu, S. J. Lee, J. Theerthagiri, Y. Lee, M. Y. Choi, Appl. Catal., B 2022, 316, 121603.
- [11] a) R. G. Kadam, T. Zhang, D. Zaoralová, M. Medveď, A. Bakandritsos, O. Tomanec, M. Petr, J. Zhu Chen, J. T. Miller, M. Otyepka, Small 2021, 17, 2006477; b) Y. Yang, J. Xu, Y. Lai, T. Wang, L. Ji, Z. Liu, S. Wang, Appl. Catal. B: Environ. Energy 2024, 358, 124414.
- [12] a) X. Zhai, Q. Yu, J. Chi, X. Wang, B. Li, B. Yang, Z. Li, J. Lai, L. Wang, Nano Energy 2023, 105, 108008; b) Y. Liu, J. Zhang, Y. Li, Q. Qian, Z. Li, Y. Zhu, G. Zhang, Nat. Commun. 2020, 11, 1853.
- [13] Y. Jeong, S. S. Naik, Y. Yu, J. Theerthagiri, S. J. Lee, P. L. Show, H. C. Choi, M. Y. Choi, J. Mater. Sci. Technol. 2023, 143, 20.
- [14] a) Y. Feng, Q. Shi, J. Lin, E. Chai, X. Zhang, Z. Liu, L. Jiao, Y. Wang, Adv. Mater. 2022, 34, 2207747; b) H.-Y. Wang, L. Wang, J.-T. Ren, W. Tian, M. Sun, Y. Feng, Z.-Y. Yuan, ACS Nano 2023, 17, 10965
- [15] a) H.-Y. Wang, L. Wang, J.-T. Ren, W.-W. Tian, M.-L. Sun, Z.-Y. Yuan, Nano-Micro Lett. 2023, 15, 155; b) H.-M. Yang, H.-Y. Wang, S. Zhai, J.-T. Ren, Z.-Y. Yuan, Chem. Eng. J. 2024, 489, 151236.
- [16] a) Y. Li, S. Niu, P. Liu, R. Pan, H. Zhang, N. Ahmad, Y. Shi, X. Liang, M. Cheng, S. Chen, J. Du, M. Hu, D. Wang, W. Chen, Y. Li, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2024, 63, 202316755; b) J.-T. Ren, L. Chen, H.-Y. Wang, W.-W. Tian, Z.-Y. Yuan, Energy Environ. Sci. 2024, 17, 49.
- [17] a) Y. Guo, X. Liu, Y. Zang, Y. Wu, Q. Zhang, Z. Wang, Y. Liu, Z. Zheng, H. Cheng, B. Huang, Y. Dai, P. Wang, J. Mater. Chem. A 2022, 10, 17297; b) R. A. Senthil, S. Jung, A. Min, A. Kumar, C. J. Moon, M. Singh, M. Y. Choi, ACS Catal. 2024, 14, 3320; c) Q. Qian, J. Zhang, J. Li, Y. Li, X. Jin, Y. Zhu, Y. Liu, Z. Li, A. El-Harairy, C. Xiao, G. Zhang, Y. Xie, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2021, 60, 5984.
- [18] a) J. S. Samdani, J. Sanetuntikul, S. Shanmugam, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2022, 47, 27347; b) Z. Li, X. Zhang, C. Ou, Y. Zhang, W. Wang, S. Dong, X. Dong, Coord. Chem. Rev. 2023, 495, 215381; c) A. H. Al-Naggar, N. M. Shinde, J.-S. Kim, R. S. Mane, Coord. Chem. Rev. 2023, 474, 214864.
- [19] a) Q. Xu, J. Zhang, H. Zhang, L. Zhang, L. Chen, Y. Hu, H. Jiang, C. Li, Energy Environ. Sci. 2021, 14, 5228; b) M. Zhang, Y. Ling, L. Liu, J. Xu, J. Li, Q. Fang, Inorg. Chem. Front. 2020, 7, 3081.
- [20] a) H.-Q. Chen, L. Zou, D.-Y. Wei, L.-L. Zheng, Y.-F. Wu, H. Zhang, J.-F. Li, Chin. J. Catal. 2022, 43, 33; b) R. A. Senthil, S. Jung, A. Min, C. J. Moon, M. Y. Choi, Chem. Eng. J. 2023, 475, 146441.
- [21] a) N. Takehiro, P. Liu, A. Bergbreiter, J. K. Nørskov, R. J. Behm, *Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.* **2014**, *16*, 23930; b) C. E. Park, H. Lee, R. A. Senthil, G. H. Jeong, M. Y. Choi, *Fuel* **2022**, *321*, 124108.
- [22] a) Q. Sun, Y. Li, J. Wang, B. Cao, Y. Yu, C. Zhou, G. Zhang, Z. Wang, C. Zhao, J. Mater. Chem. A 2020, 8, 21084; b) N.-A. Nguyen, Y. Ali, V.-T.

- Nguyen, O. Omelianovych, L. L. Larina, H.-S. Choi, *J. Alloys Compd.* **2020**, *849*, 156651.
- [23] a) A. Hameed, F. Nasim, N. Nisar, H. Ali, A. Qurashi, D. H. Anjum, M. Sohail, M. A. Nadeem, Energy Fuels 2023, 37, 17605; b) B. Qi, W. Chang, Q. Xu, L. Jiang, S. An, J.-F. Chu, Y.-F. Song, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2023, 15, 12078.
- [24] a) J. Theerthagiri, K. Karuppasamy, S. J. Lee, R. Shwetharani, H.-S. Kim, S. K. Pasha, M. Ashokkumar, M. Y. Choi, *Light: Sci. Appl.* 2022, 11, 250; b) R. C. Forsythe, C. P. Cox, M. K. Wilsey, A. M. Müller, *Chem. Rev.* 2021, 121, 7568; c) S. Jung, R. A. Senthil, A. Min, A. Kumar, C. J. Moon, G. H. Jeong, T. W. Kim, M. Y. Choi, *J. Mater. Chem. A* 2024, 12, 8694
- [25] a) I. Y. Khairani, G. Mínguez-Vega, C. Doñate-Buendía, B. Gökce, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2023, 25, 19380; b) S. Jung, R. A. Senthil, A. Min, A. Kumar, C. J. Moon, M. Y. Choi, Small Methods 2024, 8, 2301628.
- [26] K. Suehara, R. Takai, Y. Ishikawa, N. Koshizaki, K. Omura, H. Nagata, Y. Yamauchi, ChemPhysChem 2021, 22, 675.
- [27] a) Y. Yu, J. Theerthagiri, S. J. Lee, G. Muthusamy, M. Ashokkumar, M. Y. Choi, *Chem. Eng. J.* 2021, 411, 128486; b) Y. Jeong, S. S. Naik, J. Theerthagiri, C. J. Moon, A. Min, M. L. Aruna Kumari, M. Y. Choi, *Chem. Eng. J.* 2023, 470, 144034.
- [28] a) S. Wei, X. Wang, B. Zhang, M. Yu, Y. Zheng, Y. Wang, J. Liu, Chem. Eng. J. 2017, 314, 477; b) Y. Pu, M. J. Lawrence, V. Celorrio, Q. Wang, M. Gu, Z. Sun, L. A. Jácome, A. E. Russell, L. Huang, P. Rodriguez, J. Mater. Chem. A 2020, 8, 13340.
- [29] a) F. Ganci, V. Cusumano, P. Livreri, G. Aiello, C. Sunseri, R. Inguanta, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2021, 46, 10082; b) A. Kundu, S. Bolar, S. Das, H. Kolya, C.-W. Kang, T. Kuila, N. C. Murmu, ACS Appl. Energy Mater. 2022. 5, 14445.
- [30] C. Zhang, B. Chen, D. Mei, X. Liang, J. Mater. Chem. A 2019, 7, 5475.
- [31] T. Fu, J. Fang, C. Wang, J. Zhao, J. Mater. Chem. A 2016, 4, 8803.
- [32] Y. Pei, W. He, M. Wang, J. Wang, T. Sun, L. Hu, J. Zhu, Y. Tan, J. Wang, Chem. Commun. 2021, 57, 1498.
- [33] Z. Wang, X. Yao, Y. Kang, D. Xia, L. Gan, Catalysts 2019, 9, 569.
- [34] A. I. Inamdar, H. S. Chavan, B. Hou, C. H. Lee, S. U. Lee, S. Cha, H. Kim, H. Im, Small 2020, 16, 1905884.
- [35] S. L. Zhang, X. F. Lu, Z. P. Wu, D. Luan, X. W. Lou, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2021, 60, 19068.
- [36] a) S. Ge, L. Zhang, J. Hou, S. Liu, Y. Qin, Q. Liu, X. Cai, Z. Sun, M. Yang, J. Luo, X. Liu, ACS Appl. Energy Mater. 2022, 5, 9487; b) J.-S. Zhu, H. Yang, W. Zhang, Y. Mao, S.-S. Lyu, J. Chen, Inorg. Chem. Front. 2020. 7, 1892.
- [37] a) X. Wang, C. Xu, M. Jaroniec, Y. Zheng, S.-Z. Qiao, *Nat. Commun.* 2019, 10, 4876; b) J.-C. Dong, X.-G. Zhang, V. Briega-Martos, X. Jin, J. Yang, S. Chen, Z.-L. Yang, D.-Y. Wu, J. M. Feliu, C. T. Williams, *Nat. Energy* 2019, 4, 60.
- [38] a) L. Zhu, J. Huang, G. Meng, T. Wu, C. Chen, H. Tian, Y. Chen, F. Kong, Z. Chang, X. Cui, J. Shi, Nat. Commun. 2023, 14, 1997; b) Y. Fu, T. Li, G. Zhou, J. Guo, Y. Ao, Y. Hu, J. Shen, L. Liu, X. Wu, Nano Lett. 2020, 20, 4960.
- [39] F. Sun, J. Qin, Z. Wang, M. Yu, X. Wu, X. Sun, J. Qiu, Nat. Commun. 2021, 12, 4182.