---
source: Wang 等 - 2023 - Heteroatom-Induced Accelerated Kinetics on Nickel Selenide for Highly Efficient Hydrazine-Assisted W.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 26.455s
generated: 2026-01-10T08:00:49.178363Z
---

**ARTICLE**

https://doi.org/10.1007/s40820-023-01128-z

**Cite as** Nano-Micro Lett. (2023) 15:155

Received: 6 April 2023 Accepted: 14 May 2023 Published online: 19 June 2023 © The Author(s) 2023

# **Heteroatom‑Induced Accelerated Kinetics on Nickel Selenide for Highly Efcient Hydrazine‑Assisted Water Splitting and Zn‑Hydrazine Battery**

Hao-Yu Wang1 , Lei Wang1 , Jin-Tao Ren1 , Wen-Wen Tian1 , Ming-Lei Sun1 , Zhong-Yong Yuan1,2 \*

## **HIGHLIGHTS**

- Ultrathin P and Fe co-doped NiSe2 nanosheets supported on modifed Ni foam are synthesized, which shows desirable bifunctional electrocatalytic hydrogen evolution reaction (HER)/hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR) performance in hydrazine-assisted water electrolysis and Zn-Hz battery.
- The coexistence of P and Fe heteroatoms induces an accelerated "2+2" reaction mechanism with a two-step HER process and a twostep HzOR step.

#### **ABSTRACT**

Hydrazine-assisted water electrolysis is a promising energy conversion technology for highly efcient hydrogen production. Rational design of bifunctional electrocatalysts, which can simultaneously accelerate hydrogen evolution reaction (HER)/hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR) kinetics, is the key step. Herein, we demonstrate the development of ultrathin P/Fe co-doped NiSe2 nanosheets supported

on modifed Ni foam (P/Fe-NiSe2) synthesized through a facile electrodeposition process and subsequent heat treatment. Based on electrochemical measurements, characterizations, and density functional theory calculations, a favorable "2+2" reaction mechanism with a two-step HER process and a two-step HzOR step was fully proved and the specifc efect of P doping on HzOR kinetics was investigated. P/Fe-NiSe2 thus yields an impressive electrocatalytic performance, delivering a high current density of 100 mA cm−2 with potentials of −168 and 200 mV for HER and HzOR, respectively. Additionally, P/Fe-NiSe2 can work efciently for hydrazine-assisted water electrolysis and Zn-Hydrazine (Zn-Hz) battery, making it promising for practical application.

**KEYWORDS** Water electrolysis; Hydrogen production; Hydrazine oxidation; Bifunctional electrocatalyst; Heteroatom doping

<sup>2</sup> Key Laboratory of Advanced Energy Materials Chemistry (Ministry of Education), Nankai University, Tianjin 300071, People's Republic of China

<sup>\*</sup> Zhong-Yong Yuan, zyyuan@nankai.edu.cn

<sup>1</sup> School of Materials Science and Engineering, Smart Sensing Interdisciplinary Science Center, Nankai University, Tianjin 300350, People's Republic of China

## **1 Introduction**

Among various substitutes for fossil fuels, hydrogen, a green, clean and renewable energy resource with high gravimetric energy density, is considered as one of the most promising alternatives [[1,](#page-10-0) [2](#page-10-1)]. Electrocatalytic water splitting is a promising pathway for the production of high-purity hydrogen with zero carbon emission [[3–](#page-10-2)[8\]](#page-11-0). Since oxygen evolution reaction (OER) with high thermodynamic oxidation potential and complex four-electron transfer process is unbeftting and obstructive in practical application, various small molecules can participate into the oxidation process at the anode to replace sluggish OER process, such as hydrazine, ammonia, urea, methanol and ethanol [\[9](#page-11-1)[–11](#page-11-2)]. Among them, hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR) with a high theoretical working potential advantage of 1.56 V compared with OER (OER: 1.23 V *vs.* RHE; HzOR: −0.33 V *vs.* RHE) can be a promising alternative [[12\]](#page-11-3). Integrating cathodic hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) process and anodic HzOR process to construct a hydrazine-assisted water electrolyzer can efciently decrease the applied cell voltage and avoid the mixing of anodic O2 and cathodic H2 in membrane-free devices [[13](#page-11-4)].

To simultaneously accelerate the reaction kinetics of both HER and HzOR, several properties should be given to electrocatalysts. In terms of HER process, non-noble metal electrocatalysts generally catalyze a Volmer–Heyrovsky mechanism in alkaline media [[14–](#page-11-5)[16\]](#page-11-6):

Volmer step: 
$$H_2O + M + e^- \rightarrow M - H_{ad} + OH^-$$
 (1)

Heyrovsky step: 
$$M - H_{ad} + H_2O + e^- \rightarrow M + H_2 + OH^-$$
(2)

Herein, M and Had are the surface active sites and the absorbed hydrogen, respectively. The sluggish dissociation process of water molecule and adsorption of H in Volmer step makes it the rate-determining step (RDS) in HER process. Consequently, efcient HER electrocatalyst should possess both the abilities to dissociate water molecules and adsorb H on the surface active sites. On the other hand, HzOR under alkaline conditions is a four-electron transfer process [[17](#page-11-7)[–19](#page-11-8)]:

$$N_2H_4 + OH^- \rightarrow N_2H_3 * + H_2O + e^-$$
 (3)

$$N_2H_3 * + OH^- \rightarrow N_2H_2 * + H_2O + e^-$$
 (4)

$$N_2H_2 * + OH^- \rightarrow N_2H * + H_2O + e^-$$
 (5)

$$N_2H * + OH^- \rightarrow N_2 + H_2O + e^-$$
 (6)

Several intermediates and products are involved in the protonation processes of N2H4. Efcient HzOR electrocatalysts are required to have the ability to properly adsorb hydrazine molecules and promote the four consecutive deprotonation steps. Diferently, an accelerated two-step HzOR mechanism was also proposed [[20\]](#page-11-9). For example, Sun et al. concluded the HzOR mechanism on the Cu-doped Ni arrays [[21](#page-11-10)]:

NiCu \* + N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> + 2OH<sup>-</sup> 
$$\rightarrow$$
 NiCu - N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>2</sub> \* + H<sub>2</sub>O + 2e<sup>-</sup>
(7)
NiCu - N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> \* + 2 OH<sup>-</sup>  $\rightarrow$  NiCu \* + N<sub>2</sub> + 2H<sub>2</sub>O + 2e<sup>-</sup>

$$NiCu - N_2H_2 * + 2 OH^- \rightarrow NiCu * + N_2 + 2H_2O + 2e^-$$
(8)

A former slow two-electron transfer process to produce diazene intermediate and a latter fast two-electron transfer process to generate N2 are involved in this mechanism. However, a sufcient demonstration with corresponding characterization and electrochemical/calculation results of two-step HzOR mechanism has not been made so far, and the related parameters that can promote this two-step HzOR mechanism have not been discussed.

Recently, many Ni-based electrocatalysts are reported to exhibit excellent HER or HzOR electrocatalytic performance [\[22](#page-11-11)[–26](#page-11-12)]. Among them, nickel selenide is promising to show bifunctional electrocatalytic activities on account of several electronic properties, including attraction of protons on the negatively charged Se atoms, favored hydrogen desorption by the weaker Se–H bonds and optimal adsorption N2Hy intermediates to promote the deprotonation processes in HzOR [\[27,](#page-11-13) [28\]](#page-11-14). Nevertheless, single-component nickel selenide generally exhibits undesirable electrocatalytic performance, let alone simultaneously accelerating complex reaction kinetics of both HER and HzOR. Heteroatom doping is one of the most efective strategies to improve the electrocatalytic performance of catalysts [\[29,](#page-12-0) [30](#page-12-1)]. The doping metal and non-metal heteroatoms can introduce atomic distortions, tune the lattice/electronic structure and create additionally exposed active sites for diferent electrocatalytic reactions. The adsorption energy for diferent reaction intermediates can be thus optimized to accelerate reaction kinetics. P-doping is reported to tune the electronic structure of nickel selenide and reduce the energy barrier for HER and anodic oxidation reaction [\[31](#page-12-2)]. Besides, metal atomdoping, especially Fe-doping, is reported to accelerate electron transfer in electrocatalytic reactions, thus accelerating reaction kinetics compared with the un-doped counterparts [\[32](#page-12-3), [33](#page-12-4)]. Based on the above considerations, we developed ultrathin P/ Fe co-doped NiSe2 nanosheets supported on modifed Ni foam (P/Fe-NiSe2) synthesized through a two-step electrodeposition and subsequent selenization/phosphorous doping process. The as-synthesized electrocatalyst can thus catalyze favorable reaction kinetics for hydrazine-assisted water splitting. Low potentials of −168 and 200 mV are required to reach 100 mA cm−2 for HER and HzOR, respectively. More importantly, based on electrochemical measurements, characterizations and density functional theory (DFT) calculations, a favorable "2+2" reaction mechanism with a two-step HER process and a two-step HzOR step on P/Fe-NiSe2 were fully proved, and the specifc efect of P-doping on HzOR kinetics was investigated.

## **2 Experimental Section**

#### **2.1 Synthesis Procedures**

Typically, a piece of commercial Ni foam (NF, 1 cm×2 cm) was ultrasonically cleaned in hydrochloric acid, acetone, ethanol and deionized water to remove surface oxides and dried at 60 °C prior to the synthesis process. Then, a twostep galvanostatic electrodeposition was carried out in a twoelectrode system using the pretreated NF as the working electrode and a Pt wire as the counter electrode. In the frst step, 0.1 M NiCl2·6H2O and 2 M NH4Cl were added in to the electrolyte solution, and a cathode current density of 1 A cm−2 was applied for 10 min. The NF modifed with Ni microspheres was obtained. In the second step, 0.75 M Ni(NO3)2·6H2O and 0.25 M FeSO4·7H2O were added in to the electrolyte solution and a cathodic current density of 10 mA cm−2 was applied for 200 s. The electrolyte solution was previously purged with N2 for 30 min to avoid the oxidation of iron salts. After each electrodeposition process, the prepared sample was rinsed with deionized water and dried at room temperature. The obtained Fe-doped NiOH supported on NF was named as Fe-NiOH. The Fe-NiOH was then heated at 300 °C for 90 min under N2 fow with 200 mg powder selenide and 100 mg NaH2PO2·H2O placed near the Fe-NiOH at the upstream side to obtain the fnal product P/ Fe co-doped NiSe2 nanosheets supported on modifed Ni foam (P/Fe-NiSe2). By adjusting the pyrolyzation temperature from 300 to 250 and 200 °C, P/Fe-NiSe2-250 and P/ Fe-NiSe2-350 was obtained, respectively. For comparison, Fe-doped NiSe2 nanosheets supported on modifed Ni foam (Fe-NiSe2) was prepared through a similar process to that of P/Fe-NiSe2 without the addition of NaH2PO2·H2O in the pyrolyzation process. NiSe2 nanosheets supported on modifed Ni foam (NiSe2) was prepared through a similar process to that of Fe-NiSe2 without the addition of FeSO4·7H2O in the second electrodeposition step.

## **2.2 Characterization**

The Rigaku SmartLab difractometer equipped with Cu-*K*α radiation was utilized to collect the X-ray difraction (XRD) patterns. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM, Jeol JSM-7800F) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM, Jeol JEM-2800) were employed to characterize the structure and morphology of the synthesized materials. Utilizing a monochromatic Al-*K*α X-ray resource, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was conducted via a Thermo Scientifc ECSALAB 250Xi spectrometer. An electrochemical Nicolet iS50 spectrometer, complete with a VeeMAX III variable angle specular refectance accessory as well as an electrochemical reaction cell, was utilized to characterize the electrochemical *in situ* Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) spectroscopy.

#### **2.3 Electrochemical Measurements**

A typical three-electrode system was employed to measure the prepared catalysts' electrochemical hydrogen evolution/ hydrazine oxidation performance. Here, our prepared sample acted as the working electrode, a Hg/HgO electrode operated as the reference electrode, and a Pt wire was used as the counter electrode. On the other hand, the overall water/ hydrazine splitting performance of the catalysts was assessed using a two-electrode setup where our prepared sample served as both the anode and cathode. In measuring hydrogen evolution/overall water splitting and hydrazine oxidation/overall hydrazine splitting, the electrolyte was 1.0 M KOH and 1.0 M KOH+0.7 M N2H4, respectively.

## **3 Results and Discussions**

#### **3.1 Material Synthesis and Characterization**

The ultrathin P/Fe co-doped NiSe2 nanosheets supported on modifed Ni foam were synthesized through a two-step electrodeposition process and subsequent pyrolysis process

for selenization and phosphorous doping, as shown in Scheme S1. In order to increase the roughness of NF and expose more active sites, the commercial NF with smooth surface (Fig. S1) was modifed with Ni microspheres (Fig. S2) via a bubble template method in the frst electrodeposition step (Fig. S3). Subsequently, ultrathin Fe-doped NiOH nanosheets were vertically grown on the surface of Ni microspheres during the second electrodeposition process (Fig. S4) to prepare the Fe-NiOH (Fig. S5). The as-prepared Fe-NiOH was then subjected to a low-temperature pyrolysis to simultaneously achieve selenization and phosphorous doping to obtain P/Fe-NiSe2. For comparison, Fe-NiSe2 and NiSe2 were also prepared. The X-ray difraction (XRD) patterns of P/Fe-NiSe2 and Fe-NiSe2 (Fig. [1a](#page-4-0), b) show difraction peaks indexed to NiSe2 (PDF#41-1495), indicating that the original NiOH was transformed into NiSe2 with P and Fe dopants (Fig. [1](#page-4-0)c). Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images of P/Fe-NiSe2 (Fig. [1d](#page-4-0), f) show well retention of original morphology of Fe-NiOH after the selenization and P-doping during the pyrolysis process. Fe-NiSe2 and NiSe2 show similar morphology (Figs. S6 and S7), indicating that only composition diferences exist between them. The highresolution TEM image (Fig. [1](#page-4-0)g) shows the lattice fringes with interplanar spacing of 0.26 nm in the observational region, corresponding to NiSe2 (2 1 0). Furthermore, the homogeneous distribution of doping P and Fe into the NiSe2 lattice is demonstrated by scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) image and the corresponding elemental mappings of Ni, Fe, Se and P, proving the formation of P/

Fe-co-doped NiSe2 (Fig. [1h](#page-4-0)). The elemental compositions and the efect of P/Fe-doping on the surface chemical states of P/Fe-NiSe2 were investigated by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (Fig. [1](#page-4-0)i, j, k, l). The Ni 2*p* spectrum (Fig. [1i](#page-4-0)) of P/Fe-NiSe2 shows two corelevel peaks at 874.4 and 856.7 eV with their corresponding satellite peaks at 880.3 and 862.1 eV, which are ascribed to Ni2+ 2*p*1/2 and Ni2+ 2*p*3/2, respectively [[34\]](#page-12-5). Two peaks at 870.3 and 852.8 eV are assigned to the metallic state of Ni. Note that the binding energies of Ni 2*p*2/3 and the corresponding satellite peak of P/Fe-NiSe2 exhibit an obviously positive shift of approximately 0.4 and 0.6 eV compared with Fe-NiSe2 and NiSe2, respectively. That indicates the positively charged metal atoms with decreased localization electron density [[35](#page-12-6)]. By contrast, the Se 3*d* peak of P/Fe-NiSe2 (Fig. [1](#page-4-0)j) at 54.4 eV shows negative shift compared with Fe-NiSe2 and NiSe2, indicating that Se atoms are partially negatively charged after the incorporation of P and Fe atoms. These results demonstrate an electron distribution on Ni–Se bonds after heteroatom doping, contributing to decreased electron densities around Ni atoms and increased electron densities around Se atoms, which might optimize the adsorption of proton and hydrazine [[36\]](#page-12-7). The other main peak in Se 3*d* spectrum at 58.7 eV is ascribed to Se–O bonding, which may be derived from surface oxidation of NiSe2. The Fe 2*p* spectrums (Fig. [1](#page-4-0)k) of P/Fe-NiSe2 and Fe-NiSe2 show similar characteristic peaks of 2*p*1/2 (~723.6 eV) and 2*p*3/2 (~712.3 eV) and their corresponding satellite peaks at approximately 728.0 and 716.6 eV, respectively [\[37\]](#page-12-8). The P 2*p* spectrum (Fig. [1](#page-4-0)l) of P/Fe-NiSe2 exhibits two main peaks at 130.3 and 134.3 eV, which are assigned to P 2*p* and P–O bonding, respectively [\[38\]](#page-12-9). Based on the aforementioned discussions, P and Fe atoms are successfully incorporated into the cubic NiSe2 lattice to form P/Fe-co-doped ultrathin NiSe2 nanosheets supported on modifed Ni foam as a potential electrocatalyst for overall hydrazine splitting.

#### **3.2 Electrochemical Measurements**

Electrocatalytic HER and HzOR performances of the synthesized electrocatalysts were tested in a three-electrode system. First, linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves of P/Fe-NiSe2 for HzOR in 1.0 M KOH with diferent hydrazine concentrations were compared to identify the optimum hydrazine concentration (Fig. S8). The reactive current densities obviously increase with N2H4 up to 0.7 M. Thus, the electrocatalytic HzOR performance of the synthesized electrocatalysts was all tested in 1.0 M KOH with addition of 0.7 M N2H4. In order to optimize the electrocatalytic performances for overall hydrazine splitting, the samples of P/ Fe-NiSe2-250 and P/Fe-NiSe2-350 varying pyrolysis temperature to 250 and 350 °C were also synthesized and evaluated. Figure S9 shows that P/Fe-NiSe2 employing 300 °C as the pyrolysis temperature exhibits the best bifunctional HER/HzOR performance. Therefore, P/Fe-NiSe2 with the optimal synthesis condition was used in all the subsequent electrochemical measurements.

Figure [3a](#page-7-0) shows the LSV curves of P/Fe-NiSe2 and other comparison samples Fe-NiSe2, NiSe2, bare NF and commercial Pt/C on NF for HER. P/Fe-NiSe2 exhibits obviously enhanced electrocatalytic HER activity with decreased onset overpotential and increased current densities. The

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Fig. 1** a XRD patterns of P/Fe-NiSe<sub>2</sub>, Fe-NiSe<sub>2</sub>, NiSe<sub>2</sub> and Fe-NiOH. **b** Enlarged XRD patterns of P/Fe-NiSe<sub>2</sub>, Fe-NiSe<sub>2</sub>, NiSe<sub>2</sub> from 27 to 38 degree. **c** Crystal structure of P/Fe-NiSe<sub>2</sub>. **d-f** SEM images of P/Fe-NiSe<sub>2</sub>. **g** High-resolution TEM image of P/Fe-NiSe<sub>2</sub>. **h** STEM image and the corresponding Ni, Fe, Se, P elemental mappings of P/Fe-NiSe<sub>2</sub>. XPS characterization. **i** Ni 2p and **j** Se 3d of P/Fe-NiSe<sub>2</sub>, Fe-NiSe<sub>2</sub> and NiSe<sub>2</sub>. **k** Fe 2p of P/Fe-NiSe<sub>2</sub> and Fe-NiSe<sub>2</sub>. 1 P 2p of P/Fe-NiSe<sub>2</sub>

overpotential required for current density of 10 mA cm−2 is only 74 mV, which is superior to those of Fe-NiSe2 (110 mV), NiSe2 (141 mV), bare NF (230 mV) and slightly higher than that of commercial Pt/C (31 mV). This value of 74 mV is also lower than those of many recently reported efcient electrocatalysts (Fig. S10 and Table S1). The corresponding Tafel slope of P/Fe-NiSe2, Fe-NiSe2, and NiSe2 is 49.3, 78.4 and 80.5 Mv dec−1, respectively, indicating faster reaction kinetics on P/Fe-NiSe2 for rapid hydrogen evolution (Fig. [3](#page-7-0)b). By measuring cyclic voltammograms (CVs) at diferent scan rates (Fig. S11), the double-layer capacitance (*C*dl) of P/Fe-NiSe2 is calculated to be 77.7 mF cm−2, which is close to those of Fe-NiSe2 (66.1 mF cm−2) and NiSe2 (59.3 mF cm−2) and much higher than that of pristine Ni foam (1.9 mF cm−2), suggesting that more active sites can be exposed. The polarization curves using ECSA-normalized current densities (Fig. S13) reveal the intrinsic optimization of electrocatalytic active sites on P/Fe-NiSe2 with P and Fe doping. Besides, the H2 turn over frequency (TOF) per surface site was also calculated to further investigate the intrinsic HER activities of these electrocatalysts. The calculated TOFs are plotted against potential in Fig. S14. The TOF values for P/Fe-NiSe2 are averagely more than 5 times larger than those for Fe-NiSe2 and NiSe2. Specifcally, the experimental TOFs of P/Fe-NiSe2, Fe-NiSe2 and NiSe2 are 4.5, 2.4 and 1.3 s −1 at −0.1 V vs. RHE, respectively. These observations suggest that P/Fe-NiSe2 possesses enhanced HER activity, which is mainly attributed to intrinsically optimized active sites with favorable reaction kinetics, rather than diferent active surface areas. The long-term stability of P/Fe-NiSe2 was also evaluated by amperometry curves at a constant applied potential (Fig. [2](#page-6-0)c). The P/Fe-NiSe2 can reserve the original current density of 100 mA cm−2 for over 24 h with less than 5% loss of current density. The LSV plots measured after stability test further demonstrate nearly unchanged electrocatalytic HER activity (inset Fig. [2](#page-6-0)c). In addition, the post-HER P/Fe-NiSe2 were also investigated by SEM (Fig. S15), XRD (Fig. S16) and XPS analysis (Fig. S17), showing well retention of structure and composition with negligible change.

In addition to the excellent electrocatalytic HER performance, P/Fe-NiSe2 also exhibits outstanding electrochemical HzOR performance in N2H4-containing 1.0 M KOH. As shown in the polarization curves in Fig. [2d](#page-6-0), the P/Fe-NiSe2 shows the best electrocatalytic HzOR performance with advantageous overpotentials and enhanced reactive current densities. Specifcally, the P/Fe-NiSe2 can accomplish a current density of 100 mA cm−2 at a low potential of 200 mV, which makes it superior to Fe-NiSe2 (294 mV), NiSe2 (493 mV), commercial Pt/C catalyst and other recently reported efficient HzOR electrocatalysts (Fig. S10 and Table S2). As shown in Fig. [2e](#page-6-0), P/ Fe-NiSe2 shows the smallest Tafel slope of 54.2 mV dec−1, indicating an efective kinetical improvement after heteroatom doping, compared with Fe-NiSe2 (78.4 Mv dec−1) and NiSe2 (80.5 mV dec−1). The ECSA-normalized polarization curves of diferent samples for HzOR are shown in Fig. S18. It can be observed that P/Fe-NiSe2 shows lower overpotentials to obtain different current densities than Fe-NiSe2 and NiSe2, revealing intrinsically enhanced HzOR activity of P/Fe-NiSe2. The electrochemical stability for HzOR is a crucial index to assess the performance of electrocatalysts. The long-term stability of P/Fe-NiSe2 was evaluated by an amperometry test at a fxed potential. As shown in Fig. [2f](#page-6-0), P/Fe-NiSe2 can sustain a high current density of 100 mA cm−2 for over 24 h with minimal loss of current density and shows a good LSV overlapping with no obvious performance decay before and after the long-term stability test (inset Fig. [2](#page-6-0)f). Furthermore, the SEM (Fig. S19) and XRD (Fig. S20) analysis of the post-HzOR sample demonstrates respectable preservation of original morphology and crystallinity. In another concern, XPS analysis of P/Fe-NiSe2 shows some modifcation after long-term HzOR stability test (Fig. S21). Specifcally, the high-resolution Ni 2*p* XPS spectrum of post-HzOR P/Fe-NiSe2 sample (Fig. S21a) shows the disappearance of characteristic peaks assigned to metallic Ni and Se 3*d* spectrum (Fig. S21b) shows an intensity increase at 58.7 eV (assigned to Se-O), which can be attributed to the partial oxidation of NiSe2 during HzOR process. No other changes of structure can be detected on the post-HzOR P/Fe-NiSe2, indicating the satisfactory stability of the electrode.

## **3.3 Overall Hydrazine Splitting and Zn‑Hz Battery Performance**

Considering the excellent electrocatalytic HER and HzOR performance of P/Fe-NiSe2, is promising in overall hydrazine splitting (OHzS) and other efcient devices (Fig. [3a](#page-7-0)). As shown in Fig. [3b](#page-7-0), ultralow potentials are required for high current densities for hydrazine-assisted water electrolysis

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Fig. 2** Electrocatalytic hydrogen evolution/hydrazine oxidation performances of P/Fe-NiSe2 and other comparison samples Fe-NiSe2, NiSe2, NF and Pt/C on NF. **a** Polarization curves for HER and corresponding **b** Tafel plots. **c** Amperometry for HER stability of P/Fe-NiSe2. Inset: LSV measurement before and after HER stability test. **d** Polarization curves for HzOR and corresponding **e** Tafel plots. **f** Amperometry for HzOR stability of P/Fe-NiSe2. Inset: LSV measurement before and after HzOR stability test

with decreased applied voltages of about 1.3 V compared with traditional water electrolysis, which could be powered by a commercial solar panel without additional applied potential under sunlight (Fig. S22). This electrolysis performance is better than that of many other recently reported electrocatalysts (Table S3). In addition, the OHzS device shows remarkably stable performance at a high current density of 100 mA cm−2 for at least 100 h with negligible fuctuation of applied voltages (Fig. [3c](#page-7-0)). The faradaic efciency was demonstrated to be approximately 100%, proving a high selectivity of P/Fe-NiSe2 in hydrazine-assisted water electrolysis (Fig. S23). Zn-hydrazine (Zn-Hz) battery is a recently reported hydrazine-assisted energy conversion device, which is assembled with Zn foil as anode and bifunctional HER/HzOR electrocatalyst as cathode, separated by anion-exchange membrane (AEM) as separator [\[39](#page-12-10)]. At the anode, electrons transfer with the cycle of metal Zn and Zn(OH)4 2−. At the cathode, hydrogen is produced by the electrocatalytic HER during the discharge process, while nitrogen is produced through the electro-oxidation of hydrazine during the charge process. As shown in Fig. S24, P/Fe-NiSe2-assembled Zn-Hz battery could maintain an open circuit voltage of 0.330 V for more than 1 h, proving the feasibility in Zn-Hz battery. Figure [3d](#page-7-0) shows the discharge and charge polarization curves with small voltage gaps, further verifying the good feasibility. Figure [3e](#page-7-0) shows that the Zn-Hz battery could discharge stably at various current densities, especially at a relatively high current density of 20 mA cm−2. The Zn-Hz battery could charge after long-term discharging, suggesting its good rechargeability. Based on the discharge voltage of 327 mV and the charge voltage of 337 mV at 0.4 mA cm−2, the energy efciency of this assembled Zn-Hz battery can be calculated to be more than 97%. Besides, the assembled Zn-Hz battery could operate stably for more than 300 cycles (100 h) at 5 mA cm−2 without obvious voltage gap change, proving its excellent stability in the applied environment (Fig. S25). Thus, the P/Fe-NiSe2-assembled Zn-Hz battery is promising to be a transfer station between intermittent renewable energy and P/Fe-NiSe2-assembled water electrolyzer (Fig. [3a](#page-7-0)). The

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Fig. 3 a** Schematic illustration of the combination of OHzS, Zn-Hz battery and renewable energy. **b** Polarization curves for hydrazine-assisted water electrolysis. **c** Long-term stability test at a fxed current density of 100 mA cm−2. **d** Polarization curves and **e** galvanostatic discharge/ charge curves at diferent current densities for Zn-Hz battery

intermittent renewable energy like wind and solar energy can be stored in Zn–Hz battery to sustain the stable operation of water electrolysis device, which has great value in practical application.

#### **3.4 Insight into the Accelerated Kinetics**

Given the desirable bifunctional electrocatalytic performance, we applied further electrochemical analysis, characterization and theoretical calculation to investigate the favorable reaction kinetics of P/Fe-NiSe2. For HER, the electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) measurements (Fig. S26) show that the samples with Fe-doping feature drastic fast charge transfer relative to NiSe2 with low charge transfer resistance (*R*ct) (Fig. S27). The electron transfer and electrocatalytic kinetics during HER process were further explored by *Operando* EIS at diferent potentials (Fig. S28). As shown in Fig. S28a-c, the Nyquist spectra at the low potentials show infnite *R*ct with nearly vertical lines. Evident semicircles arise at higher applied potentials, suggesting that the electrocatalytic HER has appeared. P/Fe-NiSe2 exhibits lower applied potential for the appearance of evident semicircle than Fe-NiSe2

and NiSe2, which is in line with the lower overpotentials in polarization curves, indicating higher electrocatalytic HER activity of P/Fe-NiSe2. In addition, the change of phase angle (degree) with frequency is shown in the Bode phase plots (Fig. S28d-f). It is reported that the peaks of phase angle at low-frequency area can be attributed to the reaction charge transfer at the interface, which can be inspection parameter of hydrogen evolution reaction kinetics [[40,](#page-12-11) [41\]](#page-12-12). It can be observed that P/Fe-NiSe2 and Fe-NiSe2 show similar decrease tendency of phase angle, which is much quicker than that of NiSe2 without Fedoping, suggesting faster reaction charge transfer at the interface and accelerated HER kinetics because of Fe doping. Besides, the temperature-dependent kinetic analysis (Fig. S29) shows a lower apparent activation energy value of for P/Fe-NiSe2 (38.9 kJ mol−1) compared to those of Fe-NiSe2 (68.3 kJ mol−1) and NiSe2 (74.9 kJ mol−1), proving the optimization in enthalpy of hydrogen evolution process due to the introduction of P atoms, reducing the kinetic barrier for the HER intermediates and accelerating the hydrogen evolution process [[42,](#page-12-13) [43](#page-12-14)]. In situ Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy was employed to further investigate the specifc efect of P doping at the molecular level. As shown in the absorbance spectra collected at -0.1 V vs. RHE (Fig. S30), the most prominent peak at around 1640 cm<sup>-1</sup> (green area in Fig. S30) is assigned to the OH bending mode, which represents the change of OH<sup>-</sup> concentration on the reaction interface related to the hydrogen evolution process [44-46]. The negative-going band for P/Fe-NiSe2 is obviously more intense than those for Fe-NiSe<sub>2</sub> and NiSe<sub>2</sub>, demonstrating the accelerated HER kinetics by incorporation of P element.

For HzOR, to prove the two-step reaction mechanism hypothesis and investigate the specific effect of P doping on the HzOR reaction kinetics, CV curves of P/Fe-NiSe<sub>2</sub> and Fe-NiSe<sub>2</sub> were measured in 10 mM N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub>-containing 1.0 M KOH varying scan rates from 10 to 90 mV s<sup>-1</sup> (Fig. 4a, b). It can be observed that the nickel hydroxiderelevant anodic peak and hydrazine oxidation peak appear. The nickel hydroxide-relevant anodic peak current densities  $(I_p)$  and hydrazine oxidation peak current densities  $(j_p)$  increase and show a well-linear relationship with the increasing square root of scan rate (Fig. 4c), which suggest a diffusion-controlled HzOR process at low N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> concentrations. Specifically,  $j_p$  and its peak potential  $(E_p)$  have a quantitative relationship with the square root of scan rate, which can be described by the following equations [21, 47]:

$$j_p = 3.01 \times 10^5 n [(1 - \alpha) n_\alpha]^{1/2} \text{AD}^{1/2} \text{Cv}^{1/2}$$
 (9)

$$E_p = [2.303\text{RT}/(1-\alpha)n_{\alpha}F]\log v + K$$
 (10)

Here, n is the total electron transfer number,  $\alpha$  is the electron transfer coefficient,  $n_{\alpha}$  is the electron transfer number in the rate-determining step, A is the electrode geometric area, D is the diffusion coefficient, C is the bulk hydrazine concentration and v is the scan rate. R, T, F and K are the gas constant  $(8.314 \text{ J K}^{-1} \text{ mol}^{-1})$ , temperature, Faraday constant (96,485 C mol<sup>-1</sup>) and the constant, respectively. In this way,  $n_{\alpha}$  of P/Fe-NiSe<sub>2</sub> and Fe-NiSe<sub>2</sub> are calculated to be 2.01 (approximately equal to 2) and 1.49, respectively. Thus, the rate-determining step of HzOR process on P/Fe-NiSe2 involves a two-electron transfer process to produce a diazene intermediate, while that on Fe-NiSe2 involves a mixture of one-electron transfer process and two-electron transfer process. This can well explain the accelerated HzOR reaction kinetics on P/Fe-NiSe2, which may be attributed to the positively charged Ni sites with reduced energy barrier for the dehydrogenation process in HzOR [3]. In situ Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy was employed to further investigate the reaction kinetics on modified active sites with the incorporation of P at the molecular level. When employing in situ FTIR spectroscopy over P/Fe-NiSe<sub>2</sub> in N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub>-containing KOH solution at 0.2 V vs. RHE for 200 s, several peaks assigned to  $N_2H_v$   $(1 \le y \le 4)$  intermediates for HzOR increase and finally reach a stable state, including N-H stretching at around 3280 cm<sup>-1</sup>, H-N-H bending at around 1450 cm<sup>-1</sup> and -NH<sub>2</sub> wagging at around  $1280 \text{ cm}^{-1}$  (Fig. 4d) [48–50]. As shown in Fig. 4e, the amounts of different HzOR reaction intermediates of P/ Fe-NiSe<sub>2</sub> are higher than that of Fe-NiSe<sub>2</sub>, further revealing the accelerated reaction kinetics over P/Fe-NiSe2 with modified electronic structure of Ni sites by the introduction of P element. Notably, compared with other peaks, the -NH<sub>2</sub> wagging peaks of P/Fe-NiSe<sub>2</sub> and Fe-NiSe<sub>2</sub> show a smaller absorbance gap, which can be attributed to different reaction mechanisms, specifically, the lack of N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>3</sub> intermediate in the two-step hydrazine oxidation process for P/Fe-NiSe<sub>2</sub>.

To investigate the origins of the superior bifunctional activity of P/Fe-NiSe2 and the specific effect of P doping on the HzOR reaction kinetics, density functional theory (DFT) calculations were further performed (Fig. S31).  $\Delta$  $G_{\rm H*}$  is generally considered as the key parameter to evaluate the electrocatalytic hydrogen evolution performance, and a near thermoneutral  $\Delta$   $G_{H^*}$  is favorable for the adsorption and desorption of hydrogen [3]. The Gibbs free energy of the adsorbed H\* ( $\Delta G_{H*}$ ) on P/Fe-NiSe<sub>2</sub> and Fe-NiSe<sub>2</sub> is 0.07 and -0.57 eV, respectively (Fig. 4f), indicating an optimized H bonding on P/Fe-NiSe<sub>2</sub>. Furthermore, water adsorption on the electrocatalytic surface is also critical for HER. A lower water adsorption energy ( $\Delta E_{\text{H}_2\text{O}}$ ) on P/Fe- $NiSe_2$  was calculated to be -0.55 eV, compared with that of -0.32 eV on Fe-NiSe<sub>2</sub> (Fig. 4g), proving an accelerated water adsorption process on P/Fe-NiSe<sub>2</sub>. For HzOR, the electrocatalytic performance depends on the free energies of each reaction intermediates in consecutive dehydrogenation steps. Figure 4h and Table S4 show the calculated Gibbs free energies for HzOR intermediates on P/Fe-NiSe<sub>2</sub>. The solid line and the dotted line represent the traditional fourstep and the suggested two-step HzOR process, respectively.

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**Fig. 4** CVs obtained with 10 mM hydrazine in 1.0 M KOH at diferent scan rates over **a** P/Fe-NiSe2 and **b** Fe-NiSe2. **c** HzOR peak potential plots versus log(*v*). **d, e** Electrochemical in situ FTIR spectroscopy over P/Fe-NiSe2 and Fe-NiSe2 for HzOR. **f** Gibbs free energy diagram for H adsorption. **g** H2O adsorption energy. **h** Gibbs energy profles for HzOR intermediates and the most stable confgurations of each adsorbed intermediate for P/Fe-NiSe2. **i** Schematic illustration of the proposed HzOR processes over P/Fe-NiSe2

In terms of the four-step dehydrogenation process, the RDS for both P/Fe-NiSe2 and Fe-NiSe2 is the dehydrogenation from \*N2H3 to \*N2H2, in which the free energy diference value for P/Fe-NiSe2 (0.62 eV) is lower than that for Fe-NiSe2 (1.28 eV), proving an accelerated hydrazine oxidation process on P/Fe-NiSe2. Specifcally, the free energy diference value between the frst and the second dehydrogenation process is relatively high (1.89 eV), indicating that the electro-oxidation of hydrazine on Fe-NiSe2 involves a former fast electron transfer process to produce \*N2H3 and a latter low electron transfer process to produce \*N2H2, which is consistent with the FTIR results. Additionally, the free energy diference between the frst dehydrogenation process and the two-electron process to produce \*N2H2 is also high (1.28 eV), proving that the two-electron transfer process is relatively unfavored on Fe-NiSe2. On the contrast, after P doping, these two free energy diference values dramatically decrease to be 0.69 and 0.62 eV, indicating a favored two-electron transferred process from \*N2H4 to \*N2H2 over P/Fe-NiSe2. Similarly, the two-electron transferred process from \*N2H2 to \*N2 is also preferable on P/Fe-NiSe2, composing a two-step HzOR process, which can be illustrated by Fig. [4](#page-9-0)i. Thus, the bifunctional electrocatalytic HER and HzOR activity and a synthetically favorable "2+2" reaction mechanism with a two-step HER process and a two-step HzOR process of P/Fe-NiSe2 have been proved, making it promising to be used in overall hydrazine splitting.

## **4 Conclusions**

In summary, we have developed ultrathin P/Fe co-doped NiSe2 nanosheets supported on modifed Ni foam as highly efcient bifunctional HER and HzOR electrocatalysts for hydrazine-assisted water splitting. The prepared P/Fe-NiSe2 can achieve a high current density of 100 mA cm−2 at potentials of −168 and 200 mV for HER and HzOR, respectively. The specifc efects of P and Fe doping have been investigated in view of accelerated charge transfer and optimized reaction kinetics based on electrochemical measurements, characterizations and DFT calculations. A favorable "2+2" reaction mechanism is thus concluded with a two-step HER process and a two-step HzOR step. This work not only reports an efcient bifunctional electrocatalyst for overall hydrazine splitting, but also provides a deeper mechanistic understanding of the heteroatom doping for HER/HzOR and may stimulate creativity for the development of advanced electrocatalysts for hydrogen production.

**Acknowledgements** This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (22179065, 22111530112, 21875118), the Tianjin Graduate Research and Innovation Project (2022BKY018) and the Ph.D. Candidate Research Innovation Fund of NKU School of Materials Science and Engineering.

**Funding** Open access funding provided by Shanghai Jiao Tong University.

#### **Declarations**

**Conflict of interest** The authors declare no interest confict. They have no known competing fnancial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to infuence the work reported in this paper.

**Open Access** This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article's Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article's Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit <http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/>.

**Supplementary Information** The online version contains supplementary material available at [https://doi.org/10.1007/](https://doi.org/10.1007/s40820-023-01128-z) [s40820-023-01128-z](https://doi.org/10.1007/s40820-023-01128-z).

### **References**

- <span id="page-10-0"></span>1. C. Dai, Y. Pan, B. Liu, Water splitting: conjugated polymer nanomaterials for solar water splitting. Adv. Energy Mater. **10**(42), 2070172 (2020). [https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.20207](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202070172) [0172](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202070172)
- <span id="page-10-1"></span>2. T. Gao, X. Tang, X. Li, S. Wu, S. Yu et al., Understanding the atomic and defective interface efect on ruthenium clusters for the hydrogen evolution reaction. ACS Catal. **13**(1), 49–59 (2023). <https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c04586>
- <span id="page-10-2"></span>3. Y. Zhu, J. Zhang, Q. Qian, Y. Li, Z. Li et al., Dual nanoislands on Ni/C hybrid nanosheet activate superior hydrazine oxidation-assisted high-efciency H2 production. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. **61**(2), e202113082 (2022). [https://doi.org/10.1002/](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202113082) [anie.202113082](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202113082)
- 4. L.A. Zavala, K. Kumar, V. Martin, F. Maillard, F. Maugé et al., Direct evidence of the role of Co or Pt, Co single-atom promoters on the performance of MoS2 nanoclusters for the hydrogen evolution reaction. ACS Catal. **13**(2), 1221–1229 (2023). <https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c05432>

- 5. G. Fu, X. Kang, Y. Zhang, X. Yang, L. Wang et al., Coordination efect-promoted durable Ni(OH)2 for energy-saving hydrogen evolution from water/methanol Co-electrocatalysis. Nano-Micro Lett. **14**(1), 200 (2022). [https://doi.org/10.1007/](https://doi.org/10.1007/s40820-022-00940-3) [s40820-022-00940-3](https://doi.org/10.1007/s40820-022-00940-3)
- 6. Q. Xue, X.-Y. Bai, Y. Zhao, Y.-N. Li, T.-J. Wang et al., Au core-PtAu alloy shell nanowires for formic acid electrolysis. J. Energy Chem. **65**, 94–102 (2022). [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2021.05.034) [jechem.2021.05.034](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2021.05.034)
- 7. Y. Liu, P. Vijayakumar, Q. Liu, T. Sakthivel, F. Chen et al., Shining light on anion-mixed nanocatalysts for efficient water electrolysis: fundamentals, progress, and perspectives. Nano-Micro Lett. **14**(1), 43 (2022). [https://doi.org/10.1007/](https://doi.org/10.1007/s40820-021-00785-2) [s40820-021-00785-2](https://doi.org/10.1007/s40820-021-00785-2)
- <span id="page-11-0"></span>8. Y. Ding, K.-W. Cao, J.-W. He, F.-M. Li, H. Huang et al., Nitrogen-doped graphene aerogel-supported ruthenium nanocrystals for pH-universal hydrogen evolution reaction. Chinese J. Catal. **43**(6), 1535–1543 (2022). [https://doi.org/10.1016/](https://doi.org/10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63977-3) [S1872-2067\(21\)63977-3](https://doi.org/10.1016/S1872-2067(21)63977-3)
- <span id="page-11-1"></span>9. H.-Y. Wang, M.-L. Sun, J.-T. Ren, Z.-Y. Yuan, Circumventing challenges: design of anodic electrocatalysts for hybrid water electrolysis systems. Adv. Energy Mater. **13**(4), 2203568 (2023). <https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202203568>
- 10. Y. Xue, Y. Guo, Q. Zhang, Z. Xie, J. Wei et al., MOF-derived Co and Fe species loaded on N-doped carbon networks as efcient oxygen electrocatalysts for Zn-air batteries. Nano-Micro Lett. **14**(1), 162 (2022). [https://doi.org/10.1007/](https://doi.org/10.1007/s40820-022-00890-w) [s40820-022-00890-w](https://doi.org/10.1007/s40820-022-00890-w)
- <span id="page-11-2"></span>11. J. Zhu, J. Qian, X. Peng, B. Xia, D. Gao, Etching-induced surface reconstruction of NiMoO4 for oxygen evolution reaction. Nano-Micro Lett. **15**(1), 30 (2023). [https://doi.org/10.1007/](https://doi.org/10.1007/s40820-022-01011-3) [s40820-022-01011-3](https://doi.org/10.1007/s40820-022-01011-3)
- <span id="page-11-3"></span>12. Q. Qian, J. Zhang, J. Li, Y. Li, X. Jin et al., Artifcial heterointerfaces achieve delicate reaction kinetics towards hydrogen evolution and hydrazine oxidation catalysis. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. **60**(11), 5984–5993 (2021). [https://doi.org/10.1002/](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202014362) [anie.202014362](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202014362)
- <span id="page-11-4"></span>13. Q. Sun, M. Zhou, Y. Shen, L. Wang, Y. Ma et al., Hierarchical nanoporous Ni(Cu) alloy anchored on amorphous NiFeP as efcient bifunctional electrocatalysts for hydrogen evolution and hydrazine oxidation. J. Catal. **373**, 180–189 (2019). <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcat.2019.03.039>
- <span id="page-11-5"></span>14. J. Li, J. Li, J. Ren, H. Hong, D. Liu et al., Electric-feldtreated Ni/Co3O4 film as high-performance bifunctional electrocatalysts for efcient overall water splitting. Nano-Micro Lett. **14**(1), 148 (2022). [https://doi.org/10.1007/](https://doi.org/10.1007/s40820-022-00889-3) [s40820-022-00889-3](https://doi.org/10.1007/s40820-022-00889-3)
- 15. R. Li, H. Xu, P. Yang, D. Wang, Y. Li et al., Synergistic interfacial and doping engineering of heterostructured NiCo(OH)*x*-Co*y*W as an efcient alkaline hydrogen evolution electrocatalyst. Nano-Micro Lett. **13**(1), 120 (2021). [https://doi.org/10.](https://doi.org/10.1007/s40820-021-00639-x) [1007/s40820-021-00639-x](https://doi.org/10.1007/s40820-021-00639-x)
- <span id="page-11-6"></span>16. G. Qian, J. Chen, T. Yu, L. Luo, S. Yin, N-doped graphenedecorated NiCo alloy coupled with mesoporous NiCoMoO nano-sheet heterojunction for enhanced water electrolysis

- activity at high current density. Nano-Micro Lett. **13**(1), 77 (2021). <https://doi.org/10.1007/s40820-021-00607-5>
- <span id="page-11-7"></span>17. Y. Li, X. Yu, J. Gao, Y. Ma, Hierarchical Ni2P/Zn–Ni–P nanosheet array for efcient energy-saving hydrogen evolution and hydrazine oxidation. J. Mater. Chem. A **11**(5), 2191–2202 (2023). <https://doi.org/10.1039/D2TA08366C>
- 18. Q. Yu, X. Liu, G. Liu, X. Wang, Z. Li et al., Constructing three-phase heterojunction with 1D/3D hierarchical structure as efcient trifunctional electrocatalyst in alkaline seawater. Adv. Funct. Mater. **32**(46), 2205767 (2022). [https://doi.org/](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202205767) [10.1002/adfm.202205767](https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202205767)
- <span id="page-11-8"></span>19. X.-W. Lv, Q.-H. Kong, X.-L. Song, Y.-P. Liu, Z.-Y. Yuan, Coupling nonstoichiometric Cu2−*x*Se with stable Cu2Se berzelianite for efcient synergistic electrocatalytic hydrazine-assisted water splitting. Inorg. Chem. Front. **9**(23), 6182–6189 (2022). <https://doi.org/10.1039/D2QI01699K>
- <span id="page-11-9"></span>20. Y. Meng, X. Zou, X. Huang, A. Goswami, Z. Liu et al., Polypyrrole-derived nitrogen and oxygen co-doped mesoporous carbons as efcient metal-free electrocatalyst for hydrazine oxidation. Adv. Mater. **26**(37), 6510–6516 (2014). <https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201401969>
- <span id="page-11-10"></span>21. Q. Sun, Y. Li, J. Wang, B. Cao, Y. Yu et al., Pulsed electrodeposition of well-ordered nanoporous Cu-doped Ni arrays promotes high-efciency overall hydrazine splitting. J. Mater. Chem. A **8**(40), 21084–21093 (2020). [https://doi.org/10.1039/](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0TA08078K) [D0TA08078K](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0TA08078K)
- <span id="page-11-11"></span>22. F. Qin, Z. Zhao, M.K. Alam, Y. Ni, F. Robles-Hernandez et al., Trimetallic NiFeMo for overall electrochemical water splitting with a low cell voltage. ACS Energy Lett. **3**(3), 546–554 (2018). <https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.7b01335>
- 23. C. Zhu, Z. Yin, W. Lai, Y. Sun, L. Liu et al., Fe-Ni-Mo nitride porous nanotubes for full water splitting and Zn-air batteries. Adv. Energy Mater. **8**(36), 1802327 (2018). [https://doi.org/10.](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.201802327) [1002/aenm.201802327](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.201802327)
- 24. C. Tang, R. Zhang, W. Lu, Z. Wang, D. Liu et al., Energysaving electrolytic hydrogen generation: Ni2P nanoarray as a high-performance non-noble-metal electrocatalyst. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. **56**(3), 842–846 (2017). [https://doi.org/10.1002/](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201608899) [anie.201608899](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201608899)
- 25. L. Hang, T. Zhang, D. Men, L. Liang, Y. Chen et al., Constructing nickel-based bifunctional oxygen catalyst and dual network hydrogel electrolyte for high-performance, compressible and rechargeable zinc-air batteries. Mater. Today Phys. **29**, 100924 (2022). [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mtphys.2022.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mtphys.2022.100924) [100924](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mtphys.2022.100924)
- <span id="page-11-12"></span>26. J. Zhou, L. Yu, Q. Zhou, C. Huang, Y. Zhang et al., Ultrafast fabrication of porous transition metal foams for efcient electrocatalytic water splitting. Appl. Catal. B-Environ. **288**, 120002 (2021). <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2021.120002>
- <span id="page-11-13"></span>27. X. Peng, Y. Yan, X. Jin, C. Huang, W. Jin et al., Recent advance and prospectives of electrocatalysts based on transition metal selenides for efcient water splitting. Nano Energy **78**, 105234 (2020). [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2020.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2020.105234) [105234](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2020.105234)
- <span id="page-11-14"></span>28. X. Xia, L. Wang, N. Sui, V.L. Colvin, W.W. Yu, Recent progress in transition metal selenide electrocatalysts for water

- splitting. Nanoscale **12**(23), 12249–12262 (2020). [https://doi.](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0NR02939D) [org/10.1039/D0NR02939D](https://doi.org/10.1039/D0NR02939D)
- <span id="page-12-0"></span>29. Z. Wang, H. Liu, R. Ge, X. Ren, J. Ren et al., Phosphorusdoped Co3O4 nanowire array: a highly efcient bifunctional electrocatalyst for overall water splitting. ACS Catal. **8**(3), 2236–2241 (2018). <https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.7b03594>
- <span id="page-12-1"></span>30. C. Huang, J. Zhou, D. Duan, Q. Zhou, J. Wang et al., Roles of heteroatoms in electrocatalysts for alkaline water splitting: A review focusing on the reaction mechanism. Chin. J. Catal. **43**(8), 2091–2110 (2022). [https://doi.org/10.1016/S1872-](https://doi.org/10.1016/S1872-2067(21)64052-4) [2067\(21\)64052-4](https://doi.org/10.1016/S1872-2067(21)64052-4)
- <span id="page-12-2"></span>31. J. Yu, W.-J. Li, G. Kao, C.-Y. Xu, R. Chen et al., In-situ growth of CNTs encapsulating P-doped NiSe2 nanoparticles on carbon framework as efcient bifunctional electrocatalyst for overall water splitting. J. Energy Chem. **60**, 111–120 (2021). [https://](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2020.12.030) [doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2020.12.030](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jechem.2020.12.030)
- <span id="page-12-3"></span>32. T. Wang, D. Gao, W. Xiao, P. Xi, D. Xue et al., Transitionmetal-doped NiSe2 nanosheets towards efcient hydrogen evolution reactions. Nano Res. **11**(11), 6051–6061 (2018). [https://](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-018-2122-9) [doi.org/10.1007/s12274-018-2122-9](https://doi.org/10.1007/s12274-018-2122-9)
- <span id="page-12-4"></span>33. C. Gu, S. Hu, X. Zheng, M.-R. Gao, Y.-R. Zheng et al., Synthesis of sub-2 nm iron-doped NiSe2 nanowires and their surface-confned oxidation for oxygen evolution catalysis. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. **57**(15), 4020–4024 (2018). [https://doi.org/10.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201800883) [1002/anie.201800883](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201800883)
- <span id="page-12-5"></span>34. Y. Zhao, B. Jin, A. Vasilef, Y. Jiao, S.-Z. Qiao, Interfacial nickel nitride/sulfde as a bifunctional electrode for highly efcient overall water/seawater electrolysis. J. Mater. Chem. A **7**(14), 8117–8121 (2019). [https://doi.org/10.1039/C9TA0](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9TA01903K) [1903K](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9TA01903K)
- <span id="page-12-6"></span>35. Y. Wu, X. Liu, D. Han, X. Song, L. Shi et al., Electron density modulation of NiCo2S4 nanowires by nitrogen incorporation for highly efcient hydrogen evolution catalysis. Nat. Commun. **9**(1), 1425 (2018). [https://doi.org/10.1038/](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-018-03858-w) [s41467-018-03858-w](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-018-03858-w)
- <span id="page-12-7"></span>36. Y. Pan, K. Sun, S. Liu, X. Cao, K. Wu et al., Core–shell ZIF-8@ZIF-67-derived CoP nanoparticle-embedded N-doped carbon nanotube hollow polyhedron for efcient overall water splitting. J. Am. Chem. Soc. **140**(7), 2610–2618 (2018). <https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b12420>
- <span id="page-12-8"></span>37. H. Liang, A.N. Gandi, C. Xia, M.N. Hedhili, D.H. Anjum et al., Amorphous NiFe-OH/NiFeP electrocatalyst fabricated at low temperature for water oxidation applications. ACS Energy Lett. **2**(5), 1035–1042 (2017). [https://doi.org/10.1021/](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.7b00206) [acsenergylett.7b00206](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.7b00206)
- <span id="page-12-9"></span>38. L. Zeng, K. Sun, X. Wang, Y. Liu, Y. Pan et al., Threedimensional-networked Ni2P/Ni3S2 heteronanofake arrays for highly enhanced electrochemical overall-water-splitting activity. Nano Energy **51**, 26–36 (2018). [https://doi.org/10.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2018.06.048) [1016/j.nanoen.2018.06.048](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2018.06.048)
- <span id="page-12-10"></span>39. Y. Feng, Q. Shi, J. Lin, E. Chai, X. Zhang et al., Decoupled electrochemical hydrazine "splitting" via a rechargeable Zn–hydrazine battery. Adv. Mater. **34**(51), 2207747 (2022). <https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202207747>

- <span id="page-12-11"></span>40. C. Xie, W. Chen, S. Du, D. Yan, Y. Zhang et al., In-situ phase transition of WO3 boosting electron and hydrogen transfer for enhancing hydrogen evolution on Pt. Nano Energy **71**, 104653 (2020). <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nanoen.2020.104653>
- <span id="page-12-12"></span>41. K. Gu, D. Wang, C. Xie, T. Wang, G. Huang et al., Defectrich high-entropy oxide nanosheets for efcient 5-hydroxymethylfurfural electrooxidation. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. **60**(37), 20253–20258 (2021). <https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202107390>
- <span id="page-12-13"></span>42. Y. Duan, N. Dubouis, J. Huang, D.A. Dalla Corte, V. Pimenta et al., Revealing the impact of electrolyte composition for Cobased water oxidation catalysts by the study of reaction kinetics parameters. ACS Catal. **10**(7), 4160–4170 (2020). [https://](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c00490) [doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c00490](https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c00490)
- <span id="page-12-14"></span>43. J. Huang, H. Sheng, R.D. Ross, J. Han, X. Wang et al., Modifying redox properties and local bonding of Co3O4 by CeO2 enhances oxygen evolution catalysis in acid. Nat. Commun. **12**(1), 3036 (2021). [https://doi.org/10.1038/](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-021-23390-8) [s41467-021-23390-8](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-021-23390-8)
- <span id="page-12-15"></span>44. L. Wang, S. Zhu, N. Marinkovic, S. Kattel, M. Shao et al., Insight into the synergistic efect between nickel and tungsten carbide for catalyzing urea electrooxidation in alkaline electrolyte. Appl. Catal. B-Environ. **232**, 365–370 (2018). [https://](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2018.03.064) [doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2018.03.064](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2018.03.064)
- 45. X.-W. Lv, W.-S. Xu, W.-W. Tian, H.-Y. Wang, Z.-Y. Yuan, Activity promotion of core and shell in multifunctional core– shell Co2P@NC electrocatalyst by secondary metal doping for water electrolysis and Zn-air batteries. Small **17**(38), 2101856 (2021). <https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202101856>
- <span id="page-12-16"></span>46. H. Hanawa, K. Kunimatsu, M. Watanabe, H. Uchida, In situ ATR-FTIR analysis of the structure of Nafion–Pt/C and Nafion–Pt3Co/C interfaces in fuel cell. J. Phys. Chem. C **116**(40), 21401–21406 (2012). [https://doi.org/10.1021/jp306](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp306955q) [955q](https://doi.org/10.1021/jp306955q)
- <span id="page-12-17"></span>47. L.-X. Chen, L.-Y. Jiang, A.-J. Wang, Q.-Y. Chen, J.-J. Feng, Simple synthesis of bimetallic AuPd dendritic alloyed nanocrystals with enhanced electrocatalytic performance for hydrazine oxidation reaction. Electrochim. Acta **190**, 872–878 (2016). <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.electacta.2015.12.151>
- <span id="page-12-18"></span>48. Y. Yao, S. Zhu, H. Wang, H. Li, M. Shao, A spectroscopic study on the nitrogen electrochemical reduction reaction on gold and platinum surfaces. J. Am. Chem. Soc. **140**(4), 1496– 1501 (2018).<https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.7b12101>
- 49. X.-W. Lv, X.-L. Liu, Y.-J. Suo, Y.-P. Liu, Z.-Y. Yuan, Identifying the dominant role of pyridinic-N–Mo bonding in synergistic electrocatalysis for ambient nitrogen reduction. ACS Nano **15**(7), 12109–12118 (2021). [https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.1c03465) [1c03465](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.1c03465)
- <span id="page-12-19"></span>50. H.-Y. Wang, J.-T. Ren, C.-C. Weng, X.-W. Lv, Z.-Y. Yuan, Insight into the valence state of sisal-like MoO2 nanosheet arrays for N2 electrolysis. Chem. Eng. J. **426**, 130761 (2021). <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cej.2021.130761>