---
source: Wang 等 - 2024 - Ultrathin Co0.5 NiS Nanosheets for Hydrazine Oxidation Assisted Nitrite Reduction.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 45.252s
generated: 2026-01-10T08:03:08.581642Z
---

www.afm-journal.de

# Ultrathin Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS Nanosheets for Hydrazine Oxidation **Assisted Nitrite Reduction**

Xiao-Hui Wang, Rou Yuan, Shi-Bin Yin, Qing-Ling Hong, Quan-Guo Zhai, Yu-Cheng Jiang, Yu Chen,\* and Shu-Ni Li\*

Nitrite (NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup>) and hydrazine (N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub>) are common N-pollutants in groundwater. The electrochemical method can realize the treatment of N-pollutants and the synthesis of energy substance ammonia (NH<sub>3</sub>). Designing and synthesizing efficient electrocatalysts is of great significance. Herein, ultrathin Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS nanosheets attached on nickel foam (Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF) are synthesized via cyanogel-NaBH<sub>4</sub> hydrolysis process and succedent sulfurization approach. Owing to the ultrathin nanosheet structure and the interaction between Ni and Co, Co, NiS-NSs/NF exhibits high activity for NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> reduction reaction (NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup>RR), in which the Faraday efficiency is 92.2% and the NH<sub>3</sub> yield is 0.25 mmol  $h^{-1}$  cm<sup>-2</sup> at -0.15 V potential. Meanwhile, Co, 5 NiS-NSs/NF also displays remarkable activity for N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> oxidation reaction in KOH electrolyte. Therefore, a symmetrical Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF||Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF electrolyzer is assembled, which only needs the operating voltage of 0.36 V to reach 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup>-to-NH<sub>3</sub> conversion in the presence of N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub>. This work reports a promising and efficient strategy for NH3 production at a small operating voltage and treatment of the N-pollutants.

1. Introduction

In the ecosystem, the nitrogen cycle is an important cycle, which involves the conversion process between nitrogen  $(N_2)$  gas and nitrogenous compounds in nature.<sup>[1]</sup> At present,

X.-H. Wang, R. Yuan, Q.-G. Zhai, Y.-C. Jiang, S.-N. Li Key Laboratory of Macromolecular Science of Shaanxi Province School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Shaanxi Normal University Xi'an 710062, P. R. China E-mail: lishuni@snnu.edu.cn

Guangxi Key Laboratory of Electrochemical Energy Materials School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Guangxi University

Nanning 530004, P. R. China

Q.-L. Hong, Y. Chen School of Materials Science and Engineering Shaanxi Normal University Xi'an 710062, P. R. China E-mail: chenyu001@snnu.edu.cn

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202310288

DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202310288

human activity has seriously broken the balance of the global nitrogen cycle, which results in a series of environmental problems such as water eutrophication, acidification, and greenhouse gas emissions.[2] Nitrogen oxyanions (such as nitrate (NO3-) and nitrite (NO<sub>2</sub>-)), as a pollutant, have a serious impact on the environment and human health.[3] Ammonia (NH3) is important to live on earth and is widely used in fertilizer and industry. Meanwhile, NH3 is also a crucial energy carrier.[4] So far, industrial NH<sub>3</sub> synthesis has mainly used the Haber-Bosch method, with N2 and hydrogen (H2) directly synthesized under high temperature and high-pressure conditions.<sup>[5]</sup> However, this method is energy-intensive and emits an amount of greenhouse gases. Electrocatalytic N2 reduction reaction has aroused much concern due to its moderate operation conduction and environmental-friendly.[6] Nevertheless, the Faradaic efficiency (FE) and NH2 yield are unsatisfactory due to the extremely low

solubility in aqueous solution and difficulty in breaking the N≡N of N<sub>2</sub>, accompanied by the influence of hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). Compared to N<sub>2</sub>, NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> has higher solubility in water, which allows for more contact with the electrolyte.<sup>[7]</sup> Besides,  $NO_2^-$  has a low N=O dissociation bond energy (204 kJ mol<sup>-1</sup>), which is propitious to its electroreduction.<sup>[8]</sup> Therefore, the NO<sub>2</sub>reduction reaction (NO<sub>2</sub>-RR) is regarded as a potential way for NH<sub>3</sub> production under mild conditions.

The electrochemical conversion of NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> to NH<sub>3</sub> (NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup>-to-NH<sub>3</sub>) is a complex eight-proton and six-electron transfer reaction  $(NO_2^- + 8H^+ + 6e^- \rightarrow NH_4^+ + 2H_2O)$ . [9] At the same time, various by-products can be produced, such as NO, N<sub>2</sub>O, and N<sub>2</sub>, which may result in low FE and NH<sub>3</sub> yield. In addition, NO<sub>2</sub>-RR is involved in the generation and consumption of active hydrogen (H<sub>ads</sub>) from electrolytic water.<sup>[10]</sup> The dynamic balance between the production and consumption of H<sub>ads</sub> is the key to the high performance of NO<sub>2</sub>-RR. To solve this problem, it is necessary to design and synthesize efficient electrocatalysts to improve the FE and NH<sub>3</sub> yield of NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup>-to-NH<sub>3</sub>. In recent years, ultrathin two dimensional (2D) transition metal nanosheets (NSs) are widely used in various electrocatalytic reactions<sup>[11]</sup> such as HER,<sup>[12]</sup> oxygen (O2) evolution reaction (OER),[13] nitrate reduction reaction (NO<sub>3</sub>-RR),<sup>[14]</sup> carbon dioxide (CO<sub>2</sub>) reduction reaction,<sup>[15]</sup> and organic small molecule oxidation reaction,[16] owing to the large

16163028, 2024, 8, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202310288 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Scheme 1.** Synthetic steps of Co0.5NiS-NSs/NF.

surface area, the abundant surface atoms, and the favorable heteroatom doping. For example, Wang's group prepared interlaced Co3O4/Co NSs by electrodeposition and calcination. Benefiting from nanosheet structure and modulation of defect, Co3O4/Co NSs exhibited outstanding activity for the NO3 <sup>−</sup>RR.[17] Chen's group synthesized 2D Cu2Te nanosheet arrays by electrochemical etching and chemical vapor deposition. The structure of Cu2Te NSs could effectively expose the catalytic active sites, elevating the CO2-to-CH4 electroreduction.[18] Wang's group synthesized Momodified NiFeOxHy (oxy) hydroxides (Mo-NiFeOxHy) nanosheet arrays, which exhibited good performance for OER[19] because ultrafine nanosheet arrays could produce rich edge planes to expose abundant active sites.

During the practical NO2 <sup>−</sup>-to-NH3 conversion, both NO2 <sup>−</sup>RR and OER are included in the electrolysis process, and the whole electrolysis voltage is mainly determined by OER. However, OER is a kinetic sluggish, and high energy consumption reaction, which usually requires a high potential to drive the reaction.[20] Moreover, the mixing of O2 from the OER at the anode with H2 from HER at the cathode may result in the risk of explosion. Recently, organic small molecules oxidation reactions with low energy consumption, such as urea oxidation reaction,[21] hydrazine (N2H4) oxidation reaction (HzOR),[22] and alcohol oxidation reaction,[23] have been applied in water electrolysis systems to replace OER. Unfortunately, the coupling of organic small molecule oxidation reaction at the anode and NO2 <sup>−</sup>RR at the cathode to produce NH3 has received little attention. N2H4 is an important chemical raw material and chemical intermediate, which is widely used in medicine, agriculture, the chemical industry, and the military industry.[24] Due to its excellent water solubility, it is easy to pollute the soil and groundwater, resulting in serious environmental pollution.[25] The product of N2H4 splitting is cleanable N2, and the theoretical potential of HzOR is only −0.33 V (vs RHE).[26] So, HzOR can not only reduce the anode reaction potential but also realize the treatment of pollutants. Consequently, coupling between NO2 <sup>−</sup>RR and HzOR not only can produce NH3 at low electrolysis voltage but also can effectively convert N-pollutants.

In this work, ultrathin Co0.5NiS nanosheets (Co0.5NiS-NSs) attached to nickel foam (NF) nanohybrid (Co0.5NiS-NSs/NF) were obtained via cyanogel-NaBH4 hydrolysis method and succedent sulfurization treatment strategy. Because of the ultrathin structure, sulfurization, and the interaction between Ni and Co, Co0.5NiS-NSs/NF reveals excellent electrocatalytic performance for both NO2 <sup>−</sup>RR and HzOR in alkaline conditions. For NO2 <sup>−</sup>RR, the FE and NH3 yield is 0.25 mmol h<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and 92.2%, respectively. For HzOR, the oxidation potential of HzOR at Co0.5NiS-NSs/NF is only 110 mV at 10 mA cm−2. Using bifunctional Co0.5NiS-NSs/NF to assemble Co0.5NiS-NSs/NF||Co0.5NiS-NSs/NF electrolyzer, the electrolyze only needs 0.36 V to reach 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for NO2 <sup>−</sup>-to-NH3 conversion in presence of N2H4.

## **2. Results and Discussion**

# **2.1. Synthesis and Characterization of Co0.5NiS-NSs/NF**

Co0.5NiS-NSs/NF nanohybrids were synthesized by cyanogel-NaBH4 hydrolysis method and succedent sulfurization treatment approach (**Scheme 1**). The detailed synthesis process includes the synthesis of NiCl2-K2Co(CN)6 cyanogel, the synthesis of ultrathin Co0.5Ni(OH)2 NSs attended on NF (Co0.5Ni(OH)2-NSs/NF) nanohybrid (i.e., cyanogel-NaBH4 hydrolysis step), and the synthesis of Co0.5NiS-NSs/NF (i.e., hydrothermal sulfurization step of Co0.5Ni(OH)2-NSs/NF). Co3S4-NSs/NF and Ni3S2-NSs/NF were also synthesized by using CoCl2-K3Co(CN)6 cyanogel and NiCl2-K2Ni(CN)4 cyanogel as a precursor under the same experimental conditions, respectively.

X-ray powder diffraction (XRD) measurements were performed to explore the crystal structure of samples. To prevent the influence of the diffraction peak of NF, the Co0.5Ni(OH)2- NSs were peeled off from the NF substrate through strong ultrasound. For Co0.5Ni(OH)2-NSs, no significant diffraction peak is observed, hinting at its ultrathin structural property (Figure S1a, Supporting Information). The selected area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern shows the diffraction rings, proving the polycrystalline structures of Co0.5Ni(OH)2 (Figure S1b, Supporting Information). Energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX) result displays that there exist three elements of Ni, Co, and O (Figure S1c, Supporting Information), suggesting the successful synthesis of Co0.5Ni(OH)2-NSs. After sulfurization, the XRD pattern of Co0.5NiS-NSs shows the diffraction peaks of Ni3S2 phase and Co3S4 phase, confirming that the Co0.5NiS-NSs contain Ni3S2 and Co3S4 species (**Figure 1**a). Specifically speaking, the diffraction peaks at 21.6°, 31.1°, 37.8°, 44.3°, 50.1°, and 55.2° correspond to the (110), (003), (101), (211), (202), and (303) crystal planes of Ni3S2 (JCPDS No. 44–1418), respectively.[27] The additional diffraction peaks at 31.5°, 38.2°, 50.3°, and 55.1° can be attributed to the (311), (400), (511), and (440) crystal planes of Co3S4 (JCPDS

16163028, 2024, 8, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202310288 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 1.** a) XRD pattern, b) EDX spectrum, c) XPS survey spectrum, d) Co 2p spectrum, e) Ni 2p spectrum, and f) S 2p spectrum of Co0.5NiS-NSs.

No. 47–1738), respectively.[28] EDX result shows the co-existence of Co, Ni, and S elements, in which the atomic ratio of Co and Ni is 1:2 (Figure 1b).

The electronic property and valence state of the elements were explored by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) characterization. The XPS survey spectrum of Co0.5NiS-NSs reveals the coexistence of Co, Ni, O, and S elements (Figure 1c), consistent with EDX results. Herein, the O signal is derived from the air oxidation of Co0.5NiS-NSs. In the Co 2p spectrum of Co0.5NiS-NSs (Figure 1d), the peaks at 781.8 and 796.5 eV are identified as Co2<sup>+</sup> species. The peaks at 776.1 and 792.2 eV can be attributed to Co3<sup>+</sup> species and the peaks at 786.4 and 802.5 eV are satellite peaks.[29] The Co 2p3/2 binding energy value of Co0.5NiS-NSs is transferred to a higher value of ≈0.20 eV relative to Co3S4-NSs (Figure S2a, Supporting Information), suggesting the electron transfer between Co and Ni species. In the Ni 2p XPS spectrum of Co0.5NiS-NSs (Figure 1e), the peaks at 855.7 and 873.2 eV are attributed to the Ni 2p1/2 and Ni 2p3/2, respectively.[30] Relative to Ni3S2-NSs, the binding energy value of Ni species at Co0.5NiS-NSs/NF shifts to a lower value (Figure S2b, Supporting Information), revealing the obvious electronic interaction with Co and Ni. In the S 2p XPS spectrum of Co0.5NiS-NSs (Figure 1f), two peaks at 161.8 and 163.8 eV are attributed to S 2p3/2 and S 2p1/2 of the M-S bond, respectively. Another peak at 168.2 eV corresponds to the formation of SOx <sup>y</sup><sup>−</sup> due to air oxidation.[31]

Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) measurements were performed to characterize the morphology of the sample. Relative to NF (Figure S3, Supporting Information), the surface of Co0.5Ni(OH)2-NSs/NF is rougher (Figure S4, Supporting Information), indicating the successful preparation of the precursor. The enlarged SEM pattern displays that the interconnected Co0.5Ni(OH)2 NSs are neatly attended on NF, forming a network structure with an open distribution (Figure S4a,b, Supporting Information). The SEM-EDX maps of Co0.5Ni(OH)2-

16163928, 2024, 8, Downloaded from https://advanced.oninelibitary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/aftm. 202310288 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07012026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Figure 2. a) SEM pattern, b) enlarged SEM pattern, and c) SEM-EDX maps of Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF.

NSs/NF show the uniform co-existence of Co, Ni, and O elements (Figure S4c, Supporting Information). After sulfurization,  $Co_{0.5}$ NiS-NSs/NF is still attached to the NF (**Figure 2a**). The enlarged SEM image shows that  $Co_{0.5}$ NiS-NSs/NF still has interconnected nanosheet morphology (Figure 2b), similar to  $Co_{0.5}$ Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>-NSs/NF. After sulfurization, the morphology of  $Co_{0.5}$ NiS-NSs/NF is still preserved due to the in-situ growth of  $Co_{0.5}$ Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>-NSs on NF. Obviously, such ultrathin 2D structure can provide a big surface area, which accelerates mass transfer in the reaction process. SEM-EDX maps of  $Co_{0.5}$ NiS-NSs/NF shows that Ni, Co, and S are evenly distributed on the NSs (Figure 2c), demonstrating that  $Co_{0.5}$ Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>-NSs/NF is successfully vulcanized into  $Co_{0.5}$ NiS-NSs/NF.

Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) measurements were further performed to characterize the morphology and fine structure of Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs, which was peeled off from the NF substrate by strong ultrasonic treatment. The TEM pattern of Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs confirms the nanosheet structure (Figure 3a). The enlarged TEM pattern manifests the rough surface and the ultrathin lamellar structure of 2D NSs (Figure 3b). The STEM-EDX maps show that the Ni, Co, and S are evenly distributed on the NSs (Figure 3c), consistent with the result of SEM-EDX maps. HRTEM pattern reveals the obvious lattice fringes with a lattice spacing of 0.150 and 0.174 nm, corresponding to the crystal planes of Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub> (220) and Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub> (110), respectively (Figure 3d). The obvious diffraction spots are distinctly observed in the SAED pattern, demonstrating the polycrystalline structure of Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs (Figure 3e). So far, all the physical characterizations demonstrate that the nanosheet structure is well maintained after the sulfurization process.

#### 2.2. NO<sub>2</sub>-RR Activity of Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF

Electrochemical tests were performed in an H-type cell with the three-electrodes system. In the work, all potentials correspond to the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE). The HER activity of

Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF, Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>-NSs/NF, and Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub>-NSs/NF was first investigated using the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) technique in KOH electrolyte. Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF displays more positive onset potential than Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>-NSs/NF and Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub>-NSs/NF for HER, indicating that it has better HER activity (Figure 4a). The Tafel slope can reflect the reaction kinetics and analyze the reaction mechanism of HER in an alkaline condition. [32] The Tafel slope of HER at Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF (82 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) is lower than that at  $Co_3S_4$ -NSs/NF (97 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) and  $Ni_3S_2$ -NSs/NF (132 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) (Figure S5, Supporting Information). The lower the Tafel slope indicates the faster the reaction kinetics. Therefore, Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF has the lowest Tafel slope and the best HER performance. Meanwhile, the Tafel value can qualitatively predict which step is the determination step of HER. The determination step of Tafel with a slope value of 30, 40, and 120 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> is the Tafel reaction, the Heyrovsky reaction, and the Heyrovsky reaction, respectively. For Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF, the Tafel slope is 82 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, indicating that the reaction mechanism of HER is the combined action of the Volmer-Heyrovsky mechanism, and the determination step of the reaction is the electrochemical desorption process. After adding NO<sub>2</sub>- into the KOH electrolyte, the obvious current increase is observed in all samples, indicating Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF, Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>-NSs/NF, and Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub>-NSs/NF have obvious electrocatalytic activity for NO<sub>2</sub>-RR. Among them, Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF shows the most positive NO<sub>2</sub>-RR onset potential as well as the biggest current density at the same potential, indicating Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF has the highest NO<sub>2</sub>-RR performance. Previous studies have shown that NO<sub>2</sub>-RR includes deoxygenation and hydrogenation steps, in which the H<sub>ads</sub> plays an important role. Due to the H<sub>ads</sub> generation rate slowly in the low potential range, the conversion of NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> is limited.<sup>[10]</sup> Compared with Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>-NSs/NF and Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub>-NSs/NF, Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF has better HER performance, which implies that Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF may have excellent NO2-RR activity. The electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) of Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF, Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>-NSs/NF, and Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub>-NSs/NF was measured by the double-layer capacitance  $(C_{\rm dl})$  using the cyclic voltammetry (CV) tests at different scan

16163028, 2024, 8, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfn.202310288 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Term

and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons I

 $\textbf{Figure 3.} \ \ \, \text{a) TEM pattern, b) enlarged TEM pattern, c) \ \ \, \text{HAADF-STEM and EDX maps, d) HRTEM pattern, and e) SAED image of $Co_{0.5}$ NiS-NSs. }$ 

rates. The  $C_{dl}$  of  $Co_{0.5}NiS-NSs/NF$ ,  $Ni_3S_2-NSs/NF$ , and  $Co_3S_4$ -NSs/NF are calculated to be 14.0, 7.7, and 9.4 mF. According to the ECSA =  $C_{dl}/C_s$  ( $C_s = 0.040$  mF cm<sup>-2</sup> in KOH solution), Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF exhibits a larger ECSA (104.2 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>) than  $Ni_3S_2$ -NSs/NF (69.9 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>) and  $Co_3S_4$ -NSs/NF (84.3 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>-1</sup>) (Figure S6, Supporting Information). The ECSA-normalized LSV curves of Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF exhibit a larger current density than Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>-NSs/NF and Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub>-NSs/NF for HER (Figure S7, Supporting Information), which indicates a higher intrinsic activity of Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF. Moreover, Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF has better HER and NO<sub>2</sub>-RR performance than Co<sub>0.5</sub>Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>-NSs/NF, indicating that S plays a pivotal role in NO2-RR (Figures S8 and S9, Supporting Information). The exposure of S atoms and S vacancies on the edge or base surface of metal sulfides can promote electrocatalytic properties. At the same time, when the metal atom serves as the active site, the S atom in HER can provide a site for the adsorption and separation.<sup>[33]</sup> In the NO2-RR process, the first step is the adsorption of NO2-, in which the free NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> in the solution is transformed into the adsorbed state. In the whole reaction, the adsorption is an extremely important step because it inhibits the competitive reaction of other anions, thus promoting the progress of NO<sub>2</sub>-RR. NO<sub>2</sub> in solution is adsorbed to positively charged Ni and Co sites, and negatively charged sulfur sites serve as anchor points for protons in water molecules through hydrogen bonds. The activated protons are inclined to break N=O bonds and then constitute the stable N-H bonds. With the continuous reaction of H+ produced by water electrolysis in anodic and electrons in anion, NO2- is continuously reduced.[34] The electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) tests were performed to explore the charge transfer rate of NO<sub>2</sub>-RR on Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF, Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>-NSs/NF, and Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub>-NSs/NF. The charge transfer

16163028, 2024, 8, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibtrary.viley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202310288 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07012026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Figure 4. a) LSV curves of  $Co_{0.5}$  NiS-NSs/NF,  $Co_3S_4$ -NSs/NF, and  $Ni_3S_2$ -NSs/NF in 1 M KOH electrolyte with and without 0.05 M  $NO_2^-$  at 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. b) Nyquist plots of  $Co_{0.5}$  NiS-NSs/NF,  $Co_3S_4$ -NSs/NF, and  $Ni_3S_2$ -NSs/NF in 1 M KOH electrolyte with 0.05 M  $NO_2^-$  at -0.11 V. c) The FE and NH<sub>3</sub> yields of  $Co_{0.5}$  NiS-NSs/NF at different potential. d) NH<sub>3</sub> yields of  $Co_{0.5}$  NiS-NSs/NF in 1 M KOH electrolyte with and without 0.05 M  $NO_2^-$ . e) <sup>1</sup>H NMR spectra of <sup>15</sup>NH<sub>4</sub>+ the electrolyte after  $NO_2^-$ RR using <sup>15</sup>NO<sub>2</sub>- as the N source. f) <sup>1</sup>H NMR spectra of <sup>14</sup>NH<sub>4</sub>+ the electrolyte after  $NO_2^-$ RR using <sup>14</sup>NO<sub>2</sub>- as the N source.

resistance of NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup>RR on Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF, Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>-NSs/NF, and  $Co_3S_4$ -NSs/NF are 55, 86, and 105  $\Omega$ , respectively (Figure 4b). The fact indicates the charge transfer rate of NO2-RR on Co05NiS-NSs/NF is faster than that on Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>-NSs/NF and Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub>-NSs/NF. NF as a substrate material also plays an important role in the reaction. Ultrathin Co<sub>0.5</sub>Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>-NSs were synthesized using cyanogel-NaBH<sub>4</sub> hydrolysis method (Figure S10a, Supporting Information). After sulfurization, the nanosheet structure cannot be maintained without NF (Figure S10b, Supporting Information). Meanwhile, Co<sub>0.5</sub>Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>-NSs/NF has poor NO<sub>2</sub>-RR performance compared to Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF (Figure S11, Supporting Information). These electrochemical results demonstrate that the introduction of Ni enhances the NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup>RR performance. Compared with Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>-NSs/NF and Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub>-NSs/NF, the accretion of Ni and Co optimizes the electronic structure, and the synergistic effect between Co and Ni regulates the electronic state, enhancing the adsorption and binding of the active site to NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> and intermediates, thus improving the reaction kinetics. [35] Specifically speaking, the electron transfer between Ni and Co favors the formation of  $H_{ads}$ , which creates favorable conditions for  $NO_2$ -RR. [36]

To investigate the effect of potential on products, the chronoamperometry tests of  $NO_2$ <sup>-</sup>RR at  $Co_{0.5}NiS-NSs/NF$  were carried out at different potentials. The curve of the chronoamperometry at different potentials shows that the current increases with potential (Figure S12, Supporting Information). After the chronoamperometry tests,  $NH_4$ <sup>+</sup> could be detected by UV–vis spectroscopy using the method of phenol hypochlorite.<sup>[37]</sup> After the chronoamperometry tests at different potentials, UV–vis measurements were performed when the electrolyte was diluted ten times (Figure S13, Supporting Information). The FE and  $NH_3$  yield could be calculated by the calibration curves of  $NH_4$ <sup>+</sup> (Figure S14, Supporting Information). The  $NH_3$  yield increases gradually as the potential changes from -0.05 to -0.2 V. It is well

www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.afm-journal.de

known that NO2-to-NH3 is an electrochemical hydrogenation reaction. With the potential becoming more negative, the production of H<sup>+</sup> and the yield of NH<sub>3</sub> increase. However, the FE of converting NO2- to NH3 first increases and then decreases, where the maximum value is reached at -0.15 V when the FE is 92.2% and the NH $_3$  yield is 0.25 mmol h $^{-1}$  cm $^{-2}$  (Figure 4c). With the change of potential, the FE changes in a volcanic distribution, because NO<sub>2</sub>-RR and HER are competitive reactions, and the dominant reaction gradually transforms from NO<sub>2</sub>-RR to HER. Namely, at more negative potentials, the consumption rate of H<sub>ads</sub> by nitrogen-containing intermediates differs greatly from its production rate. When there is a sufficient supply of H<sub>ads</sub>, NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> and H<sub>ads</sub> maintain a dynamic balance, inhibiting the HER and ensuring NH<sub>3</sub> production. Additionally, the NO<sub>2</sub>-RR performance of Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF, Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub>-NSs/NF, and Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>-NSs/NF was also tested by chronoamperometry tests at -0.15 V potential. Among them, Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF achieves the highest FE and NH<sub>3</sub> yield (Figure S15, Supporting Information), further confirming the interaction between Co and Ni favors NO2-RR activity enhancement. Compared with previous reports, Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF also show excellent FE and NH3 yields, further demonstrating the high efficiency of Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF for NO<sub>2</sub>-RR (Table S1, Supporting Information).

To eliminate the interference of the electrolyte itself in the reaction, the chronoamperometry test was performed in 1 м KOH electrolyte without 0.05 M  $NO_2^-$  at -0.15 V potential. The NH<sub>3</sub> yield in 1 м KOH electrolyte is much lower than that in 1 м KOH electrolyte with 0.05 M NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup>, indicating that the effect of the electrolyte is negligible (Figure 4d). The <sup>15</sup>N and <sup>14</sup>N isotopically labeled products were detected by the <sup>1</sup>H NMR spectrum to explore the source of NH<sub>3</sub>-N. The <sup>1</sup>H NMR spectrum of the electrolyte employing <sup>14</sup>NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> and <sup>15</sup>NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup> as the reactant showed a double peak and a triple peak, respectively (Figure 4e,f). These results confirm that the product of NH3 is rooted in the electroreduction of NO2-. NH3 yields were quantitatively measured by using maleic acid as the external standard of <sup>1</sup>H NMR and making a standard curve of NH<sub>4</sub><sup>+</sup> concentration according to the integral area ( $^{14}NH_4^+ - ^{14}N$  and  $^{15}NH_4^+ - ^{15}N$ ) (Figure S16a,b, Supporting Information). NH<sub>3</sub> yields calculated quantitatively by  $^{14}NH_4^{+}$  –  $^{14}N$  and  $^{15}NH_4^{+}$  –  $^{15}N$  and phenol hypochlorite method are very close, which proves the accuracy of the results (Figure S16c,d, Supporting Information).

The stability of the catalyst is also necessary for their practical application. At -0.15 V potential, six consecutive electrolysis cycles were carried out on Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF for 3 h. The FE and NH3 yield of NO2-RR on Co05NiS-NSs/NF does not fluctuate obviously during the six cycles, indicating that Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF has excellent durability (Figure S17a, Supporting Information). At the same time, the 20 h chronoamperometry test shows that the current density does not undulate significantly, confirming good stability of Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF for NO<sub>2</sub>-RR, again (Figure S17b, Supporting Information). After the chronoamperometry test, SEM and XPS show that the morphology and valence state of Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF is almost unchanged, originating from the excellent chemical stability of Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF (Figures S18, Supporting Information). The high activity and stability of Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF are ascribed to the bimetallic synergistic effect, the 3D architecture of NF, and the generation of sulfides.

#### 2.3. HzOR Activity of Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF

HzOR activity of  $Co_{0.5}NiS-NSs/NF$  first was evaluated by chronoamperometry test at 0.4 V (Figure S19, Supporting Information). After adding a little N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> in 1 M KOH electrolyte, the current density increases sharply, indicating that Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF has an excellent activity for HzOR. To determine the optimal concentration of N2H4, LSV tests were carried out in 1.0 м KOH electrolytes with different N2H4 concentrations (Figure 5a). In the range of 0.1–0.5 м, HzOR current density of Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF increases significantly with N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> concentration. After further increasing the N2H4 concentration to 1.0 м, the HzOR current density on Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF remains basically constant. Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF exhibits more negative onset oxidation for HzOR activity than Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub>-NSs/NF and Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>-NSs/NF (Figure 5b). At 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, the oxidation potential of HzOR at Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF, Co<sub>3</sub>S<sub>4</sub>-NSs/NF, and Ni<sub>3</sub>S<sub>2</sub>-NSs/NF are 110, 190, and 240 mV (Figure S20, Supporting Information), respectively. In addition, the HzOR performance of Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF, Co<sub>0.5</sub>Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>-NSs/NF, PtC/NF, and NF were measured in 1 м KOH electrolyte with 0.5 м N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> (Figure S21, Supporting Information). Although NF has a certain HzOR activity, it is negligible compared with Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF, indicating that the catalytic activity of Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF electrocatalyst is mainly derived from Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF NSs. Compared with Co<sub>0.5</sub>Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>-NSs/NF, Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF has better HzOR activity, demonstrating that sulfurization is responsible for its high activity. In fact, Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF also has higher HzOR activity than NF supported Pt/C electrocatalyst, showing promising application prospects. The excellent electrocatalytic activity of Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF for the HzOR may also come out of the close integration between Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs and NF substrate, and rapid transfer for the liberation of the products on the surface. Specifically, the 2D structure of Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs is conducive to increasing the contact area between reactants and electrocatalysts. Meanwhile, the 3D open architecture of Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF contributes to fast electron and mass transfer between reactants and electrocatalysts. As previously reported on Ni-based catalysts, the adsorption of N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> at the active site of Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF initiates the HzOR process and contributes to a sluggish two-electron transfer reaction to form diazene intermediates, which reacts with OH<sup>-</sup>, then through a fast two-electron process to produce N<sub>2</sub>. Due to the abundant active sites on NSs and the 3D structure of NF, these reactions effectively reduce the contact sites between Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF and N<sub>2</sub>, resulting in a large number of N<sub>2</sub> bubbles escaping from the surface of the electrocatalyst.

To understand the advantage of HzOR, LSV of  $Co_{0.5}NiS-NSs/NF$  was performed in 1 M KOH electrolyte with and without 0.5 M  $N_2H_4$  (Figure 5c). Obviously, HzOR has a much more negative potential than OER, which is expected to realize an energy-saving electrolysis process. At 50 and 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, the HzOR potential of  $Co_{0.5}NiS-NSs/NF$  is only 0.27 and 0.34 V, much lower than the OER potential of  $Co_{0.5}NiS-NSs/NF$  (1.32 and 1.53 V), respectively (Figure S22, Supporting Information). Meanwhile,  $Co_{0.5}NiS-NSs/NF$  also displays more negative onset potential than other reported electrocatalysts for HzOR (Table S2, Supporting Information), confirming its high activity, again. The durability of  $Co_{0.5}NiS-NSs/NF$  for HzOR was evaluated by a chronoamperometry test at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> (Figure 5d). The

16163028, 2024, 8, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibitary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/aftm.202310288 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

**Figure 5.** a) LSV curves of the HzOR on  $Co_{0.5}NiS-NSs/NF$  in 1 M KOH electrolyte with different concentrations of  $N_2H_4$  at 5 mV  $s^{-1}$ . b) LSV curves of  $Co_{0.5}NiS-NSs/NF$ ,  $Co_3S_4-NSs/NF$ , and  $Ni_3S_2-NSs/NF$  in 1 M KOH electrolyte with a 0.5 M  $N_2H_4$ . c) LSV curves of  $Co_{0.5}NiS-NSs/NF$  in 1 M KOH electrolyte with and without 0.5 M  $N_2H_4$ . d) Chronoamperometry curves of  $Co_{0.5}NiS-NSs/NF$  in 1 M KOH electrolyte with the 0.5 M  $N_2H_4$  at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for 20 h.

current density of HzOR at  $Co_{0.5}$ NiS-NSs/NF is basically unchanged after 20 h operation, indicating that  $Co_{0.5}$ NiS-NSs/NF has eminent stability. After the chronoamperometry measurement, the SEM pattern shows that the morphology of  $Co_{0.5}$ NiS-NSs/NF is maintained well (Figure S23a, Supporting Information). SEM-EDX maps still reveal the existence of Ni, Co, and S elements, suggesting chemical composition is also maintained well (Figure S23b, Supporting Information).

#### 2.4. Bifunctional Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF for HzOR Assisted NO<sub>2</sub>-RR

The present electrochemical results have revealed that Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF possess excellent activity for both NO<sub>2</sub>-RR at the cathode and HzOR at the anode. Encouraged by this, we set up a two-electrode H-type cell by using Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF as the cathode and anode ( $Co_{0.5}NiS-NSs/NF||Co_{0.5}NiS-NSs/NF$ ) to study the HzOR assisted NO<sub>2</sub>-RR system (Figure 6a). Such an electrolysis system not only can realize the treatment of N-pollutants at the anode (i.e., HzOR process) but also achieve valuable NH<sub>3</sub> production at the cathode (i.e., NO<sub>2</sub>-RR process), accompanied by the small total electrolysis voltage and stable electrolysis. LSV was performed to investigate the discrepancy between the HzORassisted  $NO_2^-RR$  (0.5 m  $N_2H_4$  in the anodic cell) and the normal NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup>RR (no N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> in the anodic cell) using the same Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF||Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF electrolysis apparatus (Figure 6b). In the presence of N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub>, Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF||Co<sub>0.5</sub>NiS-NSs/NF only requires the operating voltage of 0.36 V to reach the 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is 0.7 V lower than that in the absence of N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub>. This result demonstrates that the HzOR-assisted NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup>RR system can provide higher energy conversion efficiency for NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup>-to-NH<sub>3</sub> conversion compared with the normal NO<sub>2</sub><sup>-</sup>RR system.

HzOR assisted NO $_2$ <sup>-</sup>RR at bifunctional Co $_{0.5}$ NiS-NSs/NF was proceeded by the chronoamperometry test at 0.75 V for 10 h, the NH $_3$  yield rate is  $\approx$ 0.17 mmol h $^{-1}$  cm $^{-2}$  and the FE is 82.3% at cathode. The durability of Co $_{0.5}$ NiS-NSs/NF||Co $_{0.5}$ NiS-NSs/NF electrolyzer for the HzOR assisted NO $_2$ <sup>-</sup>RR system was measured by the chronoamperometry test at 10 mA cm $^{-2}$  (Figure 6c). As observed, the electrolysis current is stable within 20 h, indicating that Co $_{0.5}$ NiS-NSs/NF||Co $_{0.5}$ NiS-NSs/NF electrolysis apparatus has good durability for the HzOR assisted NO $_2$ <sup>-</sup>RR system, and revealing a promising potential for future practical application. Meanwhile, the continuous bubbles are observed on both the cathode and anode during electrolysis, confirming that NO $_2$ <sup>-</sup>RR and HzOR occur simultaneously and generate NH $_3$  and N $_2$ , respectively (Figure 6d).

#### 3. Conclusion

In summary,  $Co_{0.5}$ NiS-NSs/NF was synthesized by a two-step approach, including cyanogel-NaBH<sub>4</sub> hydrolysis and succedent sulfurization treatment.  $Co_{0.5}$ NiS-NSs/NF had excellent activity and stability for both  $NO_2$ <sup>-</sup>RR and HzOR in alkaline conditions, originating from the large surface area, abundant active sites, and 3D porous architecture. Specifically,  $Co_{0.5}$ NiS-NSs/NF exhibited high FE (92.2%) and NH<sub>3</sub> yield (0.25 mmol h<sup>-1</sup> cm<sup>-2</sup>) for  $NO_2$ <sup>-</sup>RR at -0.15 V. Meanwhile,  $Co_{0.5}$ NiS-NSs/NF also showed high activity for HzOR, in which the oxidation potential of was

16163028, 2024, 8, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202310288 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07.012026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

Figure 6. a) Schematic illustration of the NO $_2$ <sup>-</sup>RR assisted HzOR. b) LSV curves of Co $_{0.5}$ NiS-NSs/NF||Co $_{0.5}$ NiS-NSs/NF for the electrochemical NH $_3$  production in 1 M KOH electrolyte in the presence and absence of N $_2$ H $_4$  at 5 mV s $^{-1}$ . c) The chronoamperometry curve of Co $_{0.5}$ NiS-NSs/NF||Co $_{0.5}$ NiS-NSs/NF for 20 h at 10 mA cm $^{-2}$ . d) photograph of the Co $_{0.5}$ NiS-NSs/NF||Co $_{0.5}$ NiS-NSs/NF electrolyzer for the NO $_2$ <sup>-</sup>RR assisted HzOR at 0.5 V applied voltage

110 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. Owing to the bifunctional characteristic of  $Co_{0.5}NiS-NSs/NF$  for both  $NO_2^-RR$  and HzOR,  $Co_{0.5}NiS-NSs/NF$  could be used to construct the symmetric  $Co_{0.5}NiS-NSs/NF||Co_{0.5}NiS-NSs/NF$  electrolysis apparatus for the HzOR assisted  $NO_2^-RR$  system, which only required 0.36 V for the HzOR assisted  $NO_2^-RR$  system to achieve the  $NO_2^-$ -to- $NH_3$  conversion at the cathode, accompanying with  $N_2$  generation at the anode. This strategy not only provides a promising method for  $NH_3$  production at low electrolysis voltage but also simultaneously completes the treatment of the N-pollutants.

### 4. Experimental Section

Reagents and Chemicals: Nickel chloride hexahydrate (NiCl $_2$ -6H $_2$ O), potassium cyanonickelate (( $K_2$ Ni(CN) $_4$ )·xH $_2$ O), cobalt chloride hexahydrate (CoCl $_2$ -6H $_2$ O), potassium hexacyanocobaltate ( $K_3$ Co(CN) $_6$ ), potassium hydroxide (KOH), potassium nitrite (KNO $_2$ ), sodium borohydride (NaBH $_4$ ), hydrochloric acid (HCl), thioacetamide ( $C_2$ H $_5$ NS), maleic acid ( $C_4$ H $_4$ O $_4$ ), nickel foam (NF), and deuterium water (D $_2$ O) were purchased from Aladdin Industrial Corporation.

Synthesis of  $Co_{0.5}Ni(OH)_2$ -NSs/NF: Ultrathin  $Co_{0.5}Ni(OH)_2$  NSs on NF ( $Co_{0.5}Ni(OH)_2$ -NSs/NF) was synthesized using cyanogel-NaBH<sub>4</sub> hydrolysis method. 5 mL of 1 m NiCl<sub>2</sub> solution, 5 mL of 0.5 m K<sub>3</sub>Co(CN)<sub>6</sub> solution and the NF (1 cm  $\times$  1 cm) were mixed at temperature to form NiCl<sub>2</sub>/K<sub>3</sub>Co(CN)<sub>6</sub> cyanogel attached on NF. After adding NaBH<sub>4</sub> solution at 80 °C for 10 h,  $Co_{0.5}Ni(OH)_2$ -NSs/NF was achieved. Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub>-NSs/NF and  $Co_3O_4$ -NSs/NF were obtained by using NiCl<sub>2</sub>/K<sub>2</sub>Ni(CN)<sub>4</sub> cyanogel and  $CoCl_2/K_3$ Co(CN)<sub>6</sub> cyanogel as precursors under the same experimental conditions.

Synthesis of  $Co_{0.5}NiS-NSs/NF$ : The achieved  $Co_{0.5}Ni(OH)_2-NSs/NF$  was immersed into 0.16 g thioacetamide and 50 mL deionized water in 100 mL of a Teflon tank in a stainless steel vessel.  $Co_{0.5}NiS-NSs/NF$  was obtained after 10 h at 160 °C. For comparison,  $Ni_3S_2-NSs/NF$  and  $Co_3S_4-NSs/NF$  were prepared using  $Ni(OH)_2-NSs/NF$  and  $Co_3O_4-NSs/NF$  as precursors, respectively.

Physical/Electrochemical Characterization and Product Determination: The experimental details about physical/electrochemical and product determination were provided in the Supporting Information.

### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

### Acknowledgements

This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (21972089), the Science and Technology Innovation Team of Shaanxi Province (2023-CX-TD-27), and the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities (GK202202001).

#### Conflict of Interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

16163028, 2024, 8, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202310288 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

# **Keywords**

ammonia synthesis, bifunctional electrocatalyst, hydrazine oxidation reaction, nitrite reduction reaction, ultrathin nanosheets

> Received: August 28, 2023 Revised: October 17, 2023 Published online: November 5, 2023

- [1] X. Zhang, B. B. Ward, D. M. Sigman, *Chem. Rev.* **2020**, *120*, 5308.
- [2] a) N. Gruber, J. N. Galloway, *Nature* **2008**, *451*, 293; b) B. Z. Houlton, S. L. Morford, R. A. Dahlgren, *Science* **2018**, *360*, 58.
- [3] a) Y. Guo, J. R. Stroka, B. Kandemir, C. E. Dickerson, K. L. Bren, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 16888; b) X. Zhu, X. Fan, H. Lin, S. Li, Q. Zhai, Y. Jiang, Y. Chen, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *13*, 2300669; c) Z.-X. Ge, T.-J. Wang, Y. Ding, S.-B. Yin, F.-M. Li, P. Chen, Y. Chen, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2103916; d) Y. S. Tianlun Ren, M. Wang, K. Ren, L. Wang, Y. Xu, *Chin. J. Struct. Chem.* **2022**, *41*, 2212089.
- [4] a) P. H. Van Langevelde, I. Katsounaros, M. T. M. Koper, *Joule* **2021**, *5*, 290; b) Y. Xu, Y. Sheng, M. Wang, T. Ren, K. Shi, Z. Wang, X. Li, L. Wang, H. Wang, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2022**, *10*, 16883; c) S. Mukherjee, D. A. Cullen, S. Karakalos, K. Liu, H. Zhang, S. Zhao, H. Xu, K. L. More, G. Wang, G. Wu, *Nano Energy* **2018**, *48*, 217.
- [5] S. Giddey, S. P. S. Badwal, C. Munnings, M. Dolan, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2017**, *5*, 10231.
- [6] a) S. Paul, S. Sarkar, A. Adalder, S. Kapse, R. Thapa, U. K. Ghorai, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.* **2023**, *11*, 6191; b) R. Zhao, Y. Chen, H. Xiang, Y. Guan, C. Yang, Q. Zhang, Y. Li, Y. Cong, X. Li, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2023**, *15*, 6797.
- [7] a) L. Yue, W. Song, L. Zhang, Y. Luo, Y. Wang, T. Li, B. Ying, S. Sun, D. Zheng, Q. Liu, A. Farouk, M. S. Hamdy, S. Alfaifi, X. Sun, *Small Struct.* **2023**, *4*, 2300168; b) J. Wang, T. Feng, J. Chen, V. Ramalingam, Z. Li, D. M. Kabtamu, J.-H. He, X. Fang, *Nano Energy* **2021**, *86*, 106088; c) H. Wang, F. Zhang, M. Jin, D. Zhao, X. Fan, Z. Li, Y. Luo, D. Zheng, T. Li, Y. Wang, B. Ying, S. Sun, Q. Liu, X. Liu, X. Sun, *Mater. Today Phys.* **2023**, *30*, 100944.
- [8] a) X. He, X. Li, X. Fan, J. Li, D. Zhao, L. Zhang, S. Sun, Y. Luo, D. Zheng, L. Xie, A. M. Asiri, Q. Liu, X. Sun, *ACS Appl. Nano Mater.* **2022**, *5*, 14246; b) X. He, Z. Li, J. Yao, K. Dong, X. Li, L. Hu, S. Sun, Z. Cai, D. Zheng, Y. Luo, B. Ying, M. S. Hamdy, L. Xie, Q. Liu, X. Sun, *iScience* **2023**, *23*, 107100; c) X. Fan, X. He, X. Ji, L. Zhang, J. Li, L. Hu, X. Li, S. Sun, D. Zheng, Y. Luo, Y. Wang, L. Xie, Q. Liu, B. Ying, X. Sun, *Inorg. Chem. Front.* **2023**, *10*, 1431; d) J. Liang, Z. Li, L. Zhang, X. He, Y. Luo, D. Zheng, Y. Wang, T. Li, H. Yan, B. Ying, S. Sun, Q. Liu, M. S. Hamdy, B. Tang, X. Sun, *Chem* **2023**, *9*, 1768.
- [9] V. Rosca, M. Duca, M. T. De Groot, M. T. M. Koper, *Chem. Rev.* **2009**, *109*, 2209.
- [10] K. Fan, W. Xie, J. Li, Y. Sun, P. Xu, Y. Tang, Z. Li, M. Shao, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 7958.
- [11] Y. Wang, M. Zhang, Y. Liu, Z. Zheng, B. Liu, M. Chen, G. Guan, K. Yan, *Adv. Sci.* **2023**, *10*, 2207519.
- [12] F. Kong, A. Wu, S. Wang, X. Zhang, C. Tian, H. Fu, *Nano Res.* **2023**, *16*, 10857.
- [13] K. Zeng, M. Tian, X. Chen, J. Zhang, M. H. Rummeli, P. Strasser, J. Sun, R. Yang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *452*, 139151.
- [14] Y. Fu, S. Wang, Y. Wang, P. Wei, J. Shao, T. Liu, G. Wang, X. Bao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202303327.
- [15] a) H. Xie, R. Xie, Z. Zhang, Y. Pang, Y. Luo, J. Li, B. Liu, M.-M. Titirici, G. Chai, *J Energy Chem* **2023**, *79*, 312; b) W. Zhang, M. Jiang, S. Yang,

- Y. Hu, B. Mu, Z. Tie, Z. Jin, *Nano Res. Energy* **2022**, *1*, e9120033.
- [16] B. Liu, T. Xiao, X. Sun, H.-Q. Peng, X. Wang, Y. Zhao, W. Zhang, Y.-F. Song, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2022**, *10*, 19649.
- [17] F. Zhao, G. Hai, X. Li, Z. Jiang, H. Wang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *461*, 141960.
- [18] H. Wang, G. Zhan, C. Tang, D. Yang, W. Liu, D. Wang, Y. Wu, H. Wang, K. Liu, J. Li, M. Huang, K. Chen, *ACS Nano* **2023**, *17*, 4790.
- [19] H. Jiao, C. Wang, Z.-Y. Zhang, Y.-F. Song, B.-Q. Feng, P. Na, Z.-L. Wang, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2301609.
- [20] a) J. Wang, Y. Gao, H. Kong, J. Kim, S. Choi, F. Ciucci, Y. Hao, S. Yang, Z. Shao, J. Lim, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2020**, *49*, 9154; b) Q. Hong, B. Miao, T. Wang, F. Li, Y. Chen, *Energy Lab.* **2023**, *1*, 220022; c) Y.-N. Li, Q.-L. Hong, B.-Q. Miao, T.-J. Wang, Y. Ding, Y. Chen, *Renewables* **2023**, *1*, 90.
- [21] Z. Wang, W. Liu, J. Bao, Y. Song, X. She, Y. Hua, G. Lv, J. Yuan, H. Li, H. Xu, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *430*, 133100.
- [22] a) H.-Y. Wang, L. Wang, J.-T. Ren, W.-W. Tian, M.-L. Sun, Z.-Y. Yuan, *Nano-Micro Lett.* **2023**, *15*, 155; b) Z.-M. Wang, Q.-L. Hong, X.-H. Wang, H. Huang, Y. Chen, S.-N. Li, *Acta Phys.-Chim. Sin.* **2023**, *39*, 2303028.
- [23] a) Q. Xue, X.-Y. Bai, Y. Zhao, Y.-N. Li, T.-J. Wang, H.-Y. Sun, F.-M. Li, P. Chen, P. Jin, S.-B. Yin, Y. Chen, *J Energy Chem* **2022**, *65*, 94; b) Y. Feng, X. He, M. Cheng, Y. Zhu, W. Wang, Y. Zhang, H. Zhang, G. Zhang, *Small* **2023**, *19*, 2301986.
- [24] X. Fu, D. Cheng, C. Wan, S. Kumari, H. Zhang, A. Zhang, H. Huyan, J. Zhou, H. Ren, S. Wang, Z. Zhao, X. Zhao, J. Chen, X. Pan, P. Sautet, Y. Huang, X. Duan, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2301533.
- [25] T. Sakamoto, A. Serov, T. Masuda, M. Kamakura, K. Yoshimoto, T. Omata, H. Kishi, S. Yamaguchi, A. Hori, Y. Horiuchi, T. Terada, K. Artyushkova, P. Atanassov, H. Tanaka, *J. Power Sources* **2018**, *375*, 291.
- [26] L. Zhu, J. Huang, G. Meng, T. Wu, C. Chen, H. Tian, Y. Chen, F. Kong, Z. Chang, X. Cui, J. Shi, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 1997.
- [27] a) X. Luo, P. Ji, P. Wang, R. Cheng, D. Chen, C. Lin, J. Zhang, J. He, Z. Shi, N. Li, S. Xiao, S. Mu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 1903891; b) Y. Zhang, H. Guo, M. Song, L. Sun, R. Song, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2023**, *11*, 3584.
- [28] a) Y. Guo, J. Tang, H. Qian, Z. Wang, Y. Yamauchi, *Chem. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 5566; b) Y. Guo, J. Tang, Z. Wang, Y.-M. Kang, Y. Bando, Y. Yamauchi, *Nano Energy* **2018**, *47*, 494.
- [29] Q. Wu, A. Dong, C. Yang, L. Ye, L. Zhao, Q. Jiang, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2021**, *413*, 127482.
- [30] H. Su, S. Song, S. Li, Y. Gao, L. Ge, W. Song, T. Ma, J. Liu, *Appl. Catal., B* **2021**, *293*, 120225.
- [31] W. Xie, K. Liu, G. Shi, X. Fu, X. Chen, Z. Fan, M. Liu, M. Yuan, M. Wang, *J Energy Chem* **2021**, *60*, 272.
- [32] J. Wei, M. Zhou, A. Long, Y. Xue, H. Liao, C. Wei, Z. J. Xu, *Nano-Micro Lett.* **2018**, *10*, 75.
- [33] M. Wang, L. Zhang, Y. He, H. Zhu, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, 5320.
- [34] W. Guo, Z. Liang, J. Zhao, B. Zhu, K. Cai, R. Zou, Q. Xu, *Small Methods* **2018**, *2*, 1800204.
- [35] a) J. Wang, J. Feng, T.-O. Soyol-Erdene, Z. Wei, W. Tang, *Sep. Purif. Technol.* **2023**, *320*, 124155; b) G. A. Cerrón-Calle, A. S. Fajardo, C. M. Sánchez-Sánchez, S. Garcia-Segura, *Appl. Catal., B* **2022**, *302*, 120844.
- [36] Y. Wang, A. Xu, Z. Wang, L. Huang, J. Li, F. Li, J. Wicks, M. Luo, D.- H. Nam, C.-S. Tan, Y. Ding, J. Wu, Y. Lum, C.-T. Dinh, D. Sinton, G. Zheng, E. H. Sargent, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2020**, *142*, 5702.
- [37] Z.-Y. Wu, M. Karamad, X. Yong, Q. Huang, D. A. Cullen, P. Zhu, C. Xia, Q. Xiao, M. Shakouri, F.-Y. Chen, J. Y. Kim, Y. Xia, K. Heck, Y. Hu, M. S. Wong, Q. Li, I. Gates, S. Siahrostami, H. Wang, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 2870.