---
source: Xiao 等 - 2023 - Hierarchical CoMoNi heterostructure grown on monocrystalline CoNiMoO x  nanorods.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 77.133s
generated: 2026-01-10T08:07:19.175354Z
---

# Journal of Materials Chemistry A

# **PAPER**

View Article Online
View Journal | View Issue

Cite this: *J. Mater. Chem. A*, 2023, **11**, 15749

# Hierarchical Co/MoNi heterostructure grown on monocrystalline $CoNiMoO_x$ nanorods with robust bifunctionality for hydrazine oxidation-assisted energy-saving hydrogen evolution†

Zehao Xiao,<sup>a</sup> Jie Wang,<sup>c</sup> Hongxiu Lu,<sup>a</sup> Yinyin Qian,<sup>b</sup> Qiang Zhang, <sup>©</sup> Aidong Tang <sup>©</sup> \*<sup>ab</sup> and Huaming Yang <sup>©</sup> \*<sup>bc</sup>

Replacing thermodynamically unfavorable water oxidation by hydrazine oxidation reaction to accomplish energy-saving hydrogen evolution while efficiently disposing toxic hydrazine-rich wastewater is generally considered as an advantageous strategy. However, the unsatisfactory high voltage of the cell system owing to the lack of the active bifunctional catalysts and insufficient mechanistic understanding of hydrazine oxidation severely limit its development. Hence, we demonstrate the bifunctional metallic hierarchical Co/MoNi heterostructure grown on oxygen vacancy-modified monocrystalline CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub> nanorods for accelerating both hydrazine oxidation (–23 mV at 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) and seawater reduction (–79 mV at 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>). Impressively, such catalyst-assembled hybrid seawater electrolyzer demands an electricity consumption of only 0.143 kW h m<sup>-3</sup> H<sub>2</sub> at 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and cuts 90% power expense compared to traditional alkaline water splitting electrolyzer. DFT calculations reveal that the boosted bifunctional activity is attributed to the construction of Co/MoNi heterostructure that promotes the reaction kinetics of water dissociation, hydrogen adsorption, and stepwise dehydrogenation. These findings help to fundamentally explore the catalytic mechanism of hierarchical metallic heterostructure and highlight the rational design of fast-kinetic bifunctional catalysts for realizing large-scale energy-saving hydrogen evolution and simultaneous fast disposal of hydrazine-rich sewage.

Received 17th May 2023 Accepted 26th June 2023

DOI: 10.1039/d3ta02930a

rsc.li/materials-a

# 1 Introduction

With rising attention on the principles of carbon neutrality and emission peak, exploring renewable and green technologies based on carbon-free energy carriers to reduce CO<sub>2</sub> emission and relieve the inordinate exhaustion of fossil fuels is the cornerstone for the sustainable development of human society.<sup>1-4</sup> Hydrogen (H<sub>2</sub>), as the most prospective clean chemical fuel, stands out owing to its superior zero-carbon emission and excellent gravimetric energy density (~142.4 MJ kg<sup>-1</sup>).<sup>5,6</sup> Overall water splitting (OWS) technology driven by infinite renewable solar or wind power sources exhibits great potential in the effective conversion of abundant water to green hydrogen fuels by hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) at the cathode.<sup>7,8</sup> Nevertheless, such technology is universally limited by unaffordable electricity consumption,

which is mainly caused by the anodic kineticly sluggish oxygen evolution reaction (OER,  $E_0 = 1.23$  V versus the reversible hydrogen electrode (vs. RHE),  $4OH^- = O_2 + 2H_2O + 4e^-$ ). Accordingly, hydrogen production through OWS technology requires extremely high cost (>\$4 kg<sub>H2</sub><sup>-1</sup>), which has no economic advantage over the mature hydrogen production technologies of steam reforming or coal gasification. Moreover, since 96.5% water resources are reserved in the infinite ocean seawater, rationally developing seawater splitting system is beneficial for saving precious freshwater resources.9,10 However, the critical challenge of the seawater electrolysis is due to the abundant chloride ions (~0.5 M) of seawater that lead to severe chlorine oxidation reaction (ClOR,  $E_0 = 1.71 \text{ V} \text{ vs. RHE, } \text{Cl}^- + 2\text{OH}^- =$ ClO + H<sub>2</sub>O + 2e ) at the potential region when OER drives industrial-scale large current density.11,12 More seriously, ClOR releases poisonous and corrosive Cl2/ClO- species, which severely influence the service life of catalysts and cause toxic environmental hazards.13-15 In addition, enormous power consumption (>4.5 kW h m<sup>-3</sup> H<sub>2</sub>) and potential chlorine chemistry are major bottlenecks impeding sustainable hydrogen production through seawater.16,17

The high thermodynamic equilibrium potential of OER is destined to have great anodic overpotential (current efficient OER

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>e</sup>College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Central South University, Changsha, 410083, China. E-mail: adtang@csu.edu.cn

<sup>&</sup>lt;sup>b</sup>Engineering Research Centre of Nano-Geomaterials of Ministry of Education, China University of Geoscience, Wuhan, 430074, China. E-mail: hmyang@csu.edu.cn

<sup>&#</sup>x27;Hunan Key Lab of Mineral Materials and Application, School of Minerals Processing and Bioengineering, Central South University, Changsha, 410083, China

 $<sup>\</sup>dagger$  Electronic supplementary information (ESI) available. See DOI: 

catalysts normally demand over 1.5 V vs. RHE to achieve 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) for overcoming energy barriers and the available value of oxygen product from OER is very low compared to hydrogen. Hence, replacing OER by favorable small molecules oxidation reaction with lower thermodynamic equilibrium potential offers great opportunities to reduce the anodic potential, such as sulfion,18 glucose,19 urea,20 and hydrazine.21,22 Among them, the hydrazine oxidation reaction under alkaline conditions (HzOR,  $E_0 = -0.33 \text{ V } \nu \text{s. RHE, } N_2 H_4 + 4 O H^- = N_2 + 4 H_2 O + 4 e^-$ ) attracts more interests due to its nature of much lower operated potential and zero-carbon emission.23-25 As shown in Fig. S1,† the onset potential for HzOR is far below that of OER and ClOR; such a sharp potential reduction of over 2 V means severe problems of potential chlorine chemistry that HzOR undergoes can be fully avoided. On the other hand, hydrazine is a volatile toxic compound that is widely used in antioxidants, oxygen scavengers, explosives, rocket fuels, pesticides, herbicides, and insecticides.26-28 Furthermore, it severely risks the central nervous system, kidney, and liver of human health owing to its mutagenic, hepatotoxic, and carcinogenic nature.29,30 According to WHO and U.S. Government Environmental Protection Agency, hydrazine is considered as an evidential carcinogen whose the maximum level is limited below 0.1 ppm in sewages.31 Thus, the electrocatalysis of HzOR provides a one-stone-kills-two-birds strategy to realize the efficient removal of hydrazine from industrial wastewater and weaken the unsatisfactory anodic high energy consumption of OWS. More importantly, HzOR-assisted hydrogen production only generates nitrogen, which is much safer than the traditional OWS system that produces the potentially dangerous mixture of hydrogen and oxygen. Therefore, it is urgently needed to exploit low-cost bifunctional efficient catalysts for simultaneously realizing the efficient disposal of hydrazinerich wastewater and sustainable hydrogen production from seawater.

Transition metal-based alloys have gained particular interests for accelerating HER and HzOR owing to their excellent conductivity, adjustable electronic band structure, and tunable localized charge density.32,33 So far, some pioneering works on alloy-based catalysts have obtained achievements in the field of HzOR-assisted energy-saving hydrogen generation. For instance, Liu et al. demonstrated that low-coordinated cobalt arrays grown on Cu foam exhibited much higher activity than Pt/C catalyst with the advantageous onset potential of -0.15 V (vs. RHE) to activate HzOR.3 Qian et al. reported that NiCo/ MoNi<sub>4</sub> heterostructure acted as bifunctional HER and HzOR catalysts, which demanded a cell voltage of 0.63 V to drive 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>.34 Despite that, this area is still severely hindered by the unsatisfactory high power consumption in the two-electrode system and insufficient theoretical mechanism understanding. Moreover, combining abundant seawater for energy-saving hydrogen evolution with the treatment of toxic hydrazine-rich wastewater to construct economical seawater hybrid electrolyzer (HSE) is beneficial for the development of green chemistry concept; nevertheless, it is still barely reported due to the lack of highly active bifunctional catalysts. On the other hand, unlike the reaction pathway of OER that has obtained complete mechanism understanding, **HzOR** as complex

multidehydrogenation process is confronted with insufficient mechanistic understanding, which is adverse to the development of material chemistry. Therefore, inspired by the novel design of integrating hierarchical active components into selfsupported structure for achieving highly efficient bifunctionality, we demonstrate metallic hierarchical Co/MoNi heterostructure grown on self-supported oxygen-vacancies modified monocrystalline CoNiMoO<sub>r</sub> nanorods (denoted as CoNiMo/ CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub>) for activating both HER and HzOR. Impressively, such a catalyst demands ultralow potentials of -79 mV (vs. RHE) for HER in 1.0 M NaOH with 0.5 M NaCl and -23 mV (vs. RHE) for HzOR in 1.0 M NaOH with 0.5 M N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> to afford 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. Expectedly, the HSE system assembled by CoNiMo/  $CoNiMoO_x$  as both the anode and cathode only demands 0.059 V to drive 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> with outstanding stability and an extremely low energy consumption of 0.143 kW h m<sup>-3</sup> H<sub>2</sub>, cutting 90% energy consumption compared to the traditional seawater splitting system. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations prove that the construction of Co/MoNi heterostructure reduces the energy barrier of the rate-determining N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub>\* to N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>3</sub>\* dehydrogenation step in HzOR and optimizes the energy barriers of water dissociation and hydrogen adsorption in HER. In general, this work goes deep into understanding the mechanism and provides new insights to the novel design of promising economical HSE system based on the bifunctional CoNiMo/CoNiMoOx catalyst for achieving energysaving hydrogen evolution toward seawater electrolysis and rapid disposal of hydrazine-rich wastewater with accelerated activity and stability.

# 2 Experimental section

# 2.1 Synthesis of CoNiMoO<sub>4</sub>

Initially, the bare Ni foam (NF, 1 cm  $\times$  4 cm) substrate was ultrasonicated in 3 M HCl for 10 min and rinsed with deionized (DI, 18.2  $\Omega$  cm<sup>-1</sup>) water and alcohol for several times to remove the nickel oxide layer. Then, 1.2 mmol Co(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub>·6H<sub>2</sub>O and 0.3 mmol (NH<sub>4</sub>)<sub>6</sub>Mo<sub>7</sub>O<sub>24</sub>·2H<sub>2</sub>O were mixed in 35 mL DI water with stirring for 30 min to obtain the transparent mixed solution in the Teflon autoclave. Subsequently, the cleaning NF was vertically placed in the above liquid and stored in the autoclave at 150 °C for 6 h and then naturally cooled down; the dark violet CoNiMoO<sub>4</sub> was taken out and rinsed by DI water.

# 2.2 Synthesis of CoNiMo/CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub>

The as-obtained CoNiMoO<sub>4</sub> precursor was put in the center of the tube furnace under  $\rm H_2/Ar~(v/v, 10/90)$  gas flow (100 sccm) for 30 min to fully exhaust the air in the tube. Following this, calcination was conducted at 500 °C for 2 h at the ramp rate of 5 °C min<sup>-1</sup> under  $\rm H_2/Ar$  gas flow to yield the CoNiMo/CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub> catalyst. The loading mass of the CoNiMo/CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub> catalyst was about 5.0 mg cm<sup>-2</sup>.

# 2.3 Characterization

X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were employed to study crystal structures and recorded on a Bruker D8 Advance at a scan rate

of 2° min<sup>-1</sup> from 10° to 80°. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was conducted on a TESCAN MIRA3. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) with selected area electron diffraction (SAED) and energy-dispersive X-ray spectrometry (EDX) mapping analysis were carried out on an FEI Tecnai G2 F20 S-Twin. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) measurement to analyze the valence states was conducted on the Thermo Fisher Scientific K-Alpha, and all the obtained data were corrected according to the C 1s peak at 284.8 eV. Raman spectra with the 532 nm excitation laser was carried out on a Renishaw Via-Reflex spectrometer. The Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectra were carried out on a Thermo Scientific Nicolet iS50. The contact angle test was conducted on a Dataphysics DSA100.

### 2.4 Electrochemical measurement

All electrochemical tests were evaluated on a three-electrode system using the electrochemical workstation (CHI760E). The as-prepared catalyst was used as the working electrode, graphite rod was used as the counter electrode, and Hg/HgO (1.0 M KOH) was used as the reference electrode. 1.0 M NaOH with 0.5 M N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> solution was employed as an anodic electrolyte for the HzOR test, while 1.0 M NaOH with 0.5 M NaCl solution was employed as the cathodic electrolyte for the HER test. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was tested at the frequency region from 100 kHz to 0.01 Hz under a voltage amplitude of 5 mV. Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves were tested under a scan rate of 2 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. Cyclic voltammetry (CV) curves in the non-faradaic region were tested at different scan rates to evaluate the electrochemically active surface area (ECSA). All obtained potentials were converted into reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) according to the equation ( $E_{RHE} =$  $E_{\rm Hg/HgO}$  + 0.059 × pH + 0.098) and were 80% ohmic loss iR corrected (solution resistance was gained from EIS test), unless specially noted. Considering the potential value of practical applications, the stability test through the chronopotentiometry (CP) method under 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> was tested without iR correction.

#### 3 Results and discussion

# Synthesis and structural characterizations

The synthesis strategy for the CoNiMo/CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub> catalyst via facile hydrothermal and subsequent calcination under H<sub>2</sub>/Ar atmosphere is shown in Fig. 1a. Such a process accomplishes metallic hierarchical Co/MoNi heterostructure grown on selfvacancies-modified monocrystalline supported oxygen CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub> nanorods for the highly efficient electrolysis of HzOR and HER. Firstly, CoNiMoO<sub>4</sub> nanorods were vertically grown on NF substrate (Fig. S2†) through the hydrothermal process that respectively uses NF itself as the Ni source and Co(NO<sub>3</sub>)<sub>2</sub> as the Co source since Ni<sup>2+</sup> ions can be slowly released under acidic condition of ammonium molybdate. Subsequently, calcination under H<sub>2</sub>/Ar atmosphere decomposed the surface of the CoNiMoO<sub>4</sub> precursor to metallic hierarchical Co/ MoNi heterostructure, while oxygen vacancies-modified CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub> nanorods transformed into the monocrystalline

Fig. 1 (a) Schematic illustration of the synthesis process. SEM images of (b)  $CoNiMoO_4$  and (c)  $CoNiMo/CoNiMoO_x$ . (d) TEM image and corresponding SAED pattern for the  $CoNiMoO_x$  nanorod region. (e) HRTEM image and corresponding SAED pattern of the nanocluster region. (f) Dark-field TEM image and corresponding elemental mapping images for Co, Ni, Mo, and O of CoNiMo/CoNiMoOx.

state. Furthermore, the color change of silver NF to the dark violet CoNiMoO4 precursor to the black CoNiMo/CoNiMoOx catalyst is visible to differentiate the whole synthesis process (Fig. S3†). Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images show CoNiMoO<sub>4</sub> nanorods with few microns in diameter vertically grow on the entire surface of the NF substrate (Fig. 1b and S4†). Such a CoNiMoO<sub>4</sub> precursor was then calcined under a reduction atmosphere to obtain metallic heterostructure and promote its conductivity. As shown in Fig. 1c and S5,† the CoNiMo/CoNiMoOx catalyst well maintains the nanorod structure, but numerous nanoclusters with different sizes are generated on the surface of nanorods. It is worth noticing that such a self-supported structure not only ensures more exposed active sites to the electrolyte but also promotes electronic transmission and gas desorption ability for boosting mass transfer.35,36 Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) analysis was employed to further characterize the structure of CoNiMo/  $CoNiMoO_x$  in detail. Fig. 1d shows obvious boundaries between the CoNiMoOx nanorod with loading nanoclusters as the SEM results. In the nanorod region, the inset dot-like selected area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern displays typical

monocrystalline feature of the CoNiMoOx nanorod after calcination.<sup>37,38</sup> Such a monocrystalline nature possesses advantages of excellent stability due to the lack of anisotropic stress caused from polycrystalline species and more rapid transfer paths for electrons.39,40 In addition, the inset high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) image exhibits that the lattice fringe spacing with a distance of 0.351 nm is attributed to the (102) plane of CoMoO<sub>3</sub>. As for the nanocluster region (Fig. 1e), lattice fringe spacing in the HRTEM image with a distance of 0.206 nm is attributed to the (133) plane of MoNi, lattice fringe spacings of 0.217 and 0.191 nm with the intersection angle of 45° are ascribed to (100) and (101) planes of Co, and the lattice fringe spacing of 0.351 nm is assigned to the (102) plane of CoMoO<sub>3</sub>, which are further indicated by the inset SAED pattern. The energy dispersive X-ray (EDX) elemental mapping images exhibit that all four elements, namely, Co, Ni, Mo, and O, are evenly distributed throughout the entire nanorod, and the atomic ratio of Co: Ni: Mo: O elements from the EDX elemental mapping images is 20.1:8.4:15.5:56.0 (Fig. 1f).

The phase compositions of  $CoNiMo/CoNiMoO_x$  and  $CoNiMoO_4$  are investigated by the XRD patterns. As shown in Fig. S6,† all diffraction peaks in the XRD pattern of the  $CoNiMoO_4$  precursor well correspond to  $CoMoO_4$  (PDF #25-1434 and PDF #16-0309) and  $NiMoO_4$  (PDF #45-0142 and PDF

#13-0128). Notably, the XRD pattern of the CoNiMo/CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub> catalyst after annealing under H<sub>2</sub>/Ar atmosphere (Fig. 2a) displays that the diffraction peaks that belong to CoNiMoO4 have almost disappeared, and the remaining peaks can be assigned to  $CoNiMoO_x$  (PDF #21-0869), Co (PDF #05-0727), and MoNi (PDF #48-1745), respectively. Compared with the CoNiMoO<sub>4</sub> precursor, the transformation of diffraction peaks indicate that the surface of nanorods almost converts into alloy states, which is consistent with the remarkable change of the crystal structure in the TEM results. Furthermore, Raman spectra were employed to probe the structural change before and after the calcination process. As shown in Fig. S7,† the Raman peaks observed at 280, 338, 362, 813, 881, and 933 cm<sup>-1</sup> belong to the Mo-O vibrations of CoNiMoO<sub>4</sub>.41 Notably, Mo-O vibrations after calcination exhibit an apparent shift because thermal reduction results in the intense change of lattice distortion and internal vibrations stress. 42,43 In addition, new peaks at 467, 530, and 711 cm<sup>-1</sup> belong to the deformation of the Mo=O stretching mode and modification of the Mo2-O bond in oxygen vacancies-modified CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub> nanorods. 44,45 Xray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analysis was employed to exploit surface chemical values and elemental compositions of CoNiMo/CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub> and CoNiMoO<sub>4</sub>. The XPS survey spectrum exhibits the co-existence of Co, Ni, Mo, and O elements

Fig. 2 (a) XRD pattern of CoNiMo/CoNiMoO $_x$ . High-resolution XPS spectrum of (b) Co 2p, (c) Ni 2p, and (d) Mo 3d for CoNiMo/CoNiMoO $_x$  and CoNiMoO $_4$ .

(Fig. S8†). As shown in Fig. 2b, the high-resolution XPS spectra of Co 2p in the CoNiMo/CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub> catalyst can be divided into two pairs of spin-orbit doublets of Co 2p, accompanied by two satellite peaks. The peaks at binding energies of 780.9 and 784.0 eV are attributed to the Co<sup>3+</sup> and Co<sup>2+</sup> states, while the peak at a binding energy of 777.8 eV belongs to the metallic Co<sup>0</sup> state.46,47 Similarly, the Ni 2p spectrum (Fig. 2c) in CoNiMo/ CoNiMoO<sub>r</sub> is also fitted into two pairs of spin-orbit doublets: one peak at binding energy of 852.4 eV belongs to the metallic Ni<sup>0</sup> state and the other peaks at binding energies of 855.7 and 858.2 eV are respectively attributed to the Ni<sup>2+</sup> and Ni<sup>3+</sup> states. 48,49 As shown in Fig. 2d, the peaks at binding energies of 229.1 and 230.2 eV respectively correspond to the Mo4+ and Mo<sup>5+</sup> states, indicating the formation of oxygen vacancies in CoNiMoO<sub>r</sub> nanorods during the calcination process, as shown in the Raman spectra results. 50,51 Furthermore, the peak of the metallic Mo<sup>0</sup> state is located at a binding energy of 227.9 eV. Impressively, these signals of zero-valence metallic states in the above results jointly imply the successful synthesis of the Co/ MoNi heterostructure grown on oxygen vacancies-modified  $CoNiMoO_x$  nanorods *via* annealing under  $H_2/Ar$  atmosphere.

# Electrocatalytic performance

The HzOR activity was initially investigated in the typical threeelectrode system under solutions of 1.0 M NaOH with various concentrations of N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> to determine the optimal conditions. As shown in Fig. S9,† linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves under different concentrations (0.1 M, 0.3 M, and 0.5 M) of N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> demonstrate that the HzOR activity of CoNiMo/CoNiMoOx is

similar with various N2H4 concentrations, which means that CoNiMo/CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub> possesses highly selective catalytic activity once N2H4 is added to the electrolyte, the HzOR activity reaches maximum when the N2H4 concentration is over 0.1 M and a further increase in N2H4 concentration only affects the lowcurrent operating time. Therefore, to establish the evaluation criteria for HzOR activity, the previously reported N2H4 concentration is used for this study.22 Under a solution of 1.0 M NaOH with 0.5 M N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> (1.6 wt%), CoNiMo/CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub> only requires ultralow potentials of -23 and 47 mV (vs. RHE) to drive high current densities of 100 and 300 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> (Fig. 3a and S10†). Furthermore, such excellent HzOR activity can be visually seen from the digital image that numerous bubbles rapidly overflow from the surface of CoNiMo/CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub> at open circuit potential (Fig. S11†). In striking contrast, the sluggish OER in 1.0 M NaOH solution requires much higher potentials of 1.505 and 1.568 V for reaching the same current density (Fig. 3b and c). To the best of our knowledge, such outstanding performance ensures that CoNiMo/CoNiMoOx exceeds most other recently reported catalysts for HzOR under similar conditions (Fig. S12 and Table S1†). Moreover, Tafel slopes respectively calculated from LSV curves are 10.1 and 64.6 mV dec<sup>-1</sup> for HzOR and OER, illustrating that the HzOR performance undergoes more efficient mass transfer and favorable kinetics than OER (Fig. S13†).52 Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) under an applied potential of 10 mV (vs. RHE) was employed to evaluate the surface resistance. As shown in Fig. S14,† the much lower charge transfer resistance  $(R_{ct})$  of CoNiMo/CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub> (0.13  $\Omega$ ) than CoNiMoO<sub>4</sub> (2.93  $\Omega$ ) implies that CoNiMo/

Fig. 3 (a) HzOR LSV curves of 20 wt% Pt/C/NF, NF, CoNiMoO<sub>4</sub> and CoNiMoO<sub>5</sub> in 1.0 M NaOH solution with 0.5 M N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub>. (b) The comparison of HzOR and OER LSV curves for CoNiMo/CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub>. (c) Potentials required to drive 100 and 300 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> between HzOR with OER of CoNiMo/CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub>. (d) Stability test of CoNiMo/CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub> for HzOR at 100 mA cm $^{-2}$  (without iR correction). (e) The comparison of HzOR LSV curves before and after 5000 cycles of HzOR for CoNiMo/CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub>

CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub> has more efficient electron transmission ability.<sup>8,53</sup> The durability is generally regarded as the key target to judge whether CoNiMo/CoNiMoOx can be sustainably used for the requirement of sustainable hydrogen production. In addition, HzOR stability tests were respectively carried out by the chronoamperometry (CP) measurement at 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and 5000 cyclic voltammetry (CV) cycles (0-0.05 V vs. RHE, 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup>) of HzOR (Fig. 3d and e). Impressively, the CoNiMo/CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub> catalyst can sustainably work for over 60 h (without iR correction, 0.057 V vs. RHE  $\rightarrow$  0.111 V vs. RHE). Moreover, the removal rate of N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> for CoNiMo/CoNiMoO<sub>r</sub> is measured through the CP test at 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> in the solution of 1.0 M NaOH with 0.1 M N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub>. As shown in Fig. S15,† the reaction time point ( $\sim$ 11.2 h) of HzOR to OER means the time when hydrazine is almost consumed; hence, the rapid removal rate of N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> is calculated to be about 0.18 mol  $h^{-1}$   $g_{cat}^{-1}$  at 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. For comparision, the markedly reduced HzOR performance of CoNiMo/CoNiMoOx after 10 h electrochemical oxidation indicates zero-valence metallic alloy nanoclusters are key active sites for HzOR (Fig. S16†). Afterward, the SEM images of CoNiMo/ CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub> after 60 h stability test show that large amounts of low-conductivity particles are formed on the surface, which belong to hydroxyl-ligands produced from the reaction of N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> under alkaline conditions during long-term HzOR (Fig. S17†). Moreover, the diffraction peaks in the XRD pattern of CoNiMo/ CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub> after 60 h stability test are correspondingly weakened due to the formation of those surface hydroxyl ligands (Fig. S18†). According to the XPS results after the 60 h stability test, the signals of zero-valence metallic sites indicates that the

HzOR process under extremely low operating potential can effectively maintain self-stability (Fig. S19†).

On the other hand, the efficient HER performance of CoNiMo/CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub> is also critical for simultaneously catalyzing hydrogen production under the solution of simulated seawater (1.0 M NaOH + 0.5 M NaCl). The HER activity was investigated by the three-electrode system under different conditions of 1.0 M NaOH with/without 0.5 M NaCl. As shown in Fig. 4a and b and S20,† CoNiMo/CoNiMoOx exhibits excellent HER performance, it only demands ultralow applied potentials of 82 and 146 mV (vs. RHE) to reach 100 and 300 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> under the solution of 1.0 M NaOH, respectively. Impressively, such excellent HER performance can overcome the interference of unfavorable high concentration of Cl<sup>-</sup> ions. Fig. 4c exhibits Tafel slopes under a current density region of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. Such extremely low Tafel slope of CoNiMo/CoNiMoOx (14.3 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) represents fast reaction kinetics and suggests that the HER pathway complies with the paradigmatic Volmer-Tafel mechanism, where the H<sub>2</sub> desorption (Tafel step) is the ratedetermining step instead of the H2O dissociation (Volmer step).54,55 Furthermore, the intrinsic activity is closely related to the ECSA at the non-faradaic region, which is calculated from the double layered capacitive current density  $(C_{dl})$  under different scan rates of CV curves (Fig. S21†).56,57 As shown in Fig. S22,† the  $C_{\rm dl}$  of CoNiMo/CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub> is 97.8 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is 122.3 times larger than that of the CoNiMoO<sub>4</sub> precursor (0.8 mF cm<sup>-2</sup>). The HER LSV curves are further normalized by ECSA to exclude the influence of different surface areas and evaluate intrinsic HER performance at per ECSA. As can be seen,

Fig. 4 (a) HER LSV curves of NF, CoNiMoO<sub>4</sub>, and CoNiMo/CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub> in solutions of 1.0 M NaOH with/without 0.5 M NaCl. (b) Potentials required to drive 100 and 300 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> of CoNiMoO<sub>4</sub> and CoNiMo/CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub>. (c) Tafel plots of CoNiMoO<sub>4</sub> and CoNiMo/CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub>. (d) Stability test of CoNiMo/CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub> for HER at 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> (without iR correction). (e) The comparison of HER LSV curves of CoNiMo/CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub> before and after 5000 cycles of HER.

CoNiMo/CoNiMoOx still possesses higher HER activity than CoNiMoO<sub>4</sub> (Fig. S23†). The EIS analysis for HER is conducted at an overpotential of 50 mV; the lower R<sub>ct</sub> of CoNiMo/CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub>  $(0.15 \Omega)$  than that of CoNiMoO<sub>4</sub>  $(3.30 \Omega)$  indicates an enhanced electrical conductivity for HER (Fig. S24†). The turnover frequency (TOF) as a critical index implies the number of hydrogen transfers per second at per active site to further assess the intrinsic HER activity. 58,59 As shown in Fig. S25,† the TOF of  $CoNiMo/CoNiMoO_x$  is measured to be 3.98 s<sup>-1</sup> at an overpotential of 50 mV, which is also higher than that of CoNiMoO<sub>4</sub> (2.83 s<sup>-1</sup>). Impressively, such an outstanding performance of CoNiMo/CoNiMoO<sub>r</sub> is even far superior to the state-of-the-art commercial 20 wt% Pt/C and most recently reported efficient HER catalysts (Fig. S26-S28 and Table S1†). Notably, the CoNiMo/CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub> catalyst can sustainably work for hydrogen generation over 100 h at 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> with nearly no potential loss (without iR correction, 0.139 V vs. RHE  $\rightarrow$  0.145 V vs. RHE) and maintain great stability after 5000 cycles (-0.1-0 V vs. RHE, 50 mV s<sup>-1</sup>) of the HER CV test in the solution of 1.0 M NaOH with 0.5 M NaCl (Fig. 4d and e). Moreover, the HER performance of the CoNiMo/CoNiMoOx catalyst after 10 h electrochemical oxidation significantly decreases (Fig. S29†). Notably, the SEM images after 100 h HER stability test exhibit several nanosheets on the surface, which is consistent with the previous report on the unique surface structural reconstruction of the NiMoO<sub>4</sub>based catalyst that forms hydroxyl species under alkaline conditions during the long-time electroreduction process of HER (Fig. S30†). 36,40,60 Such surface structural reconstruction of hydroxyl species is further confirmed by the adsorption peak of the nonhydrogen-bonded O-H stretching vibration at a wavenumber of 3649 cm<sup>-1</sup> (Fig. S31†).61 The disappearance of diffraction peaks in the XRD pattern and signals of zero-valence metallic states in the XPS spectrum after 100 h HER stability test illustrate that the surface of the catalyst have transformed into amorphous hydroxyl-ligands during long-term alkaline HER (Fig. S32 and S33†).

# 3.3 HzOR-assisted seawater splitting performance

Employing cost-effective abundant seawater as the cathodic electrolyte feed and hydrazine-rich wastewater as the anodic electrolyte feed for simultaneously realizing energy-saving hydrogen generation and fast disposal of highly toxic substances driven by renewable energy sources from solar or wind is of great significance to the development of green chemistry concept (Fig. 5a). Inspired by the outstanding HER and HzOR activities of CoNiMo/CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub>, the hybrid seawater electrolyzer (HSE) system was constructed by assembling bifunctional CoNiMo/CoNiMoOx electrode for seawater reduction in the solution of 1.0 M NaOH with 0.5 M NaCl and hydrazine-rich water oxidation in the solution of 1.0 M NaOH with 0.5 M N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub>. The anion exchange membrane (FAB-PK-130, FuMA-Tech) was set up to assign access for the exchange pathway of OH<sup>-</sup> anions to keep the sustainable anodic/cathodic charge balance. Under this principle, the photographic image of the home-made HSE system with electrochemical hydrazineoxidation assisted seawater splitting for the energy-saving hydrogen generation is shown in Fig. 5b. In addition, such an asymmetric design ensures the production of highly purified hydrogen while avoiding the seawater pollution of toxic hydrazine. Impressively, the voltage difference of such an HSE system between HER and HzOR is only 0.06 V at a high current density

Fig. 5 (a) The illustration of energy-saving HSE system coupling seawater reduction and hydrazine-rich wastewater purification. (b) Photographic image of the home-made bifunctional CoNiMo/CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub> electrode-assembled HSE system for cathodic HER (left) and anodic HzOR (right). (c) Compared voltage differences ( $\Delta V$ ) between HER, HzOR, and OER for CoNiMo/CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub>. (d) LSV curves of the HSE with the compared ASE systems. (e) Stability tests of HSE and ASE systems at 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> (without *iR* correction). (f) Comparison of the HSE system with recently reported efficient OWS systems in the required power consumption.

of 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is far below that of the traditional alkaline seawater electrolyzer system (ASE, 1.59 V at 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) and indicates that such an HSE system possesses superior advantage in reducing the power consumption (Fig. 5c). For direct HzOR-assisted seawater electrolysis in the home-made HSE system (the electrolyte impedance is calculated and deducted before test), it needs extremely low voltages of 0.059 and 0.193 V to afford current densities of 100 and 300 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, cutting over 90% cell voltage compared to the ASE system (1.654 and 1.816 V to reach same current densities of 100 and 300 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>) (Fig. 5d and S34†). Notably, such excellent performance can sustainably proceed for hydrogen production below 0.237 V (without iR correction) for 40 h at 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> in sharp contrast to the huge cell voltage (1.841 V) of the ASE system (Fig. 5e). Correspondingly, the power consumption of the HSE system at 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> is markedly decreased to 0.143 kW h for generating 1 m<sup>3</sup> H<sub>2</sub>, which is far preferable than the needed theoretical onset power consumption for the traditional OWS electrolyzer (2.94 kW h m<sup>-3</sup> H<sub>2</sub>) and also excels the majority of recently reported efficient OWS systems (Fig. 5f and Table S3†). In addition, such an HSE system exhibits better bifunctional performance and favorable reaction kinetics in contrast to recently reported hydrazine-oxidation assisted water splitting systems (Fig. S35 and Table S4†). The drainage method is conducted for collective H<sub>2</sub> and N<sub>2</sub> at 50 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for respectively estimating the cathodic and anodic faradaic efficiencies (FE). As shown in Fig. S36,† the amounts of gained H<sub>2</sub> and N<sub>2</sub> are consistent with a ratio of 2:1 and FE of HER and HzOR are both over 90%. The hydrophilicity of CoNiMo/CoNiMoOx was assessed by the adhesive ability of the dropping water to the surface of the catalyst based on the wetting contact angle test. As can be seen, dropping water gets instantly stuck to the catalyst; such excellent hydrophilicity illustrates that CoNiMo/ CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub> possesses efficient mass transfer between the electrolyte with surface active sites (Fig. S37 and Movie S2†). In all, the CoNiMo/CoNiMoOx catalyst exhibits great potential in practical hydrogen generation with low power consumption and fast disposal of hydrazine-rich wastewater owing to its outstanding bifunctional performance.

# 3.4 Theoretical computation

According to the above experimental results, the CoNiMoO<sub>4</sub> precursor possesses efficient HER and HzOR activities only after H<sub>2</sub>/Ar calcination, and the theoretical results of our previous work have proved that molybdates are not essential active sites.<sup>62</sup> Thus, CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub> nanorods are only considered to construct self-supported structure for facilitating bubble desorption and mass transfer. In addition, DFT calculations are employed to probe the fundamental origins for excellent HER and HzOR activities over the Co/MoNi heterostructure after calcination. Combined with the above XRD and TEM results, the models of the typical (101) plane of Co and the (133) plane of MoNi and their constructed Co/MoNi heterostructure are built for calculations, as indicated in Fig. 6a–c. As shown in Table S5,† the detailed lattice information of Co (101) and MoNi (133) used to construct the Co/MoNi heterostructure have been

provided. The formation energy of interface is calculated to be negative, and the lattice misfit rate is below 5%, which together indicate stability at the model interface. Notably, the charge density distribution analysis for the Co/MoNi heterostructure clearly exhibits electron redistribution at the heterointerface between the neighboring Co with MoNi (Fig. 6d). Furthermore, as can be seen, the Co sites possess charge accumulation while the MoNi sites possess charge depletion. Such intense electron redistribution significantly contributes to the efficient electron transfer and facilitates the catalytic activity of the CoNiMo/ CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub> catalyst.63 As for HER, water dissociation and subsequent hydrogen adsorption steps are generally recognized as two critical steps for the generation of H<sub>2</sub> (Fig. S38†). As shown in Fig. 6e, the Co/MoNi heterostructure not only requires the minimum water adsorption energy barrier of 0.42 eV but also releases the largest energy of −0.60 eV to activate water dissociation, indicating that such a heterostructure beneficially accelerates the water dissociation of the Volmer step. On the other hand, in the subsequent Tafel step, the Co/MoNi heterostructure demands the minimum ultralow hydrogen adsorption energy barrier of -0.20 eV (Fig. 6f), which closely approaches that of the state-of-the-art Pt (-0.09 eV). Also, Ni in the MoNi sites plays more critical role than Co sites during HER. In addition, considering that hydroxyl ligands are produced during HER on the surface of the CoNiMo/CoNiMoOx catalyst, we construct the model of hydroxyl-modified Co/MoNi heterostructure (Co-OH\*/MoNi-OH\*) for supplementary calculation (Fig. S39 and S40†). As shown in Fig. S41,† the Co-OH\*/MoNi-OH\* heterostructure requires lower water adsorption energy barrier of 0.32 eV and releases higher energy of -0.79 eV to activate water dissociation of the Volmer step, and it also demands lower hydrogen adsorption energy barrier of -0.17 eV in the subsequent Tafel step. Thus, we conclude that the reconstructed hydroxyl-ligands over the CoNiMo/CoNiMoOx catalyst are beneficial for further facilitating the intrinsic HER activity.

As for HzOR, it is more important than HER owing to its complex process and less relative theoretical research fundamentals. Thus, DFT calculations for HzOR along elementary reactions of stepwise dehydrogenation to final product of N2 are conducted  $(N_2H_4 \rightarrow N_2H_4^* \rightarrow N_2H_3^* \rightarrow N_2H_2^* \rightarrow N_2H^* \rightarrow N_2^*$  $\rightarrow$  N<sub>2</sub>) over Co, MoNi, and Co/MoNi (Fig. 6g and S42-S44†). Notably, the adsorption of N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> and dehydrogenation steps of N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>2</sub>\* to N<sub>2</sub>H\* and N<sub>2</sub>H\* to N<sub>2</sub>\* over Co, MoNi, and Co/MoNi are thermodynamically spontaneous, among which the Co/ MoNi heterostructure exhibits the most negative N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> adsorption energy of -1.70 eV, which indicates that the Co/MoNi heterostructure possesses more favorable N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> adsorption ability. In addition, it can be concluded that the first dehydrogenation step of N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub>\* to N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>3</sub>\* over Co, MoNi, and Co/MoNi is the rate determining step for HzOR because such a step requires maximum energy barrier. As expected, the Co/MoNi heterostructure exhibits the lowest energy barrier (0.47 eV) than that of Co (0.71 eV) and MoNi (0.55 eV), demonstrating that the Co/ MoNi heterostructure is predicted to be the most active for accelerating HzOR. Density of states (DOS) is adopted to explore the bonding interactions between N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> molecules with the Co/

Fig. 6 Side-view of the structural models for (a) Co (101), (b) MoNi (133), and (c) Co/MoNi heterostructure. (d) Differential charge density distributions for the Co/MoNi heterostructure. Cyan and yellow regions respectively represent charge depletion and charge accumulation. The isosurface value is set to be 0.005 eV  $\text{Å}^{-3}$ . Free-energy barriers of (e) water dissociation and (f) hydrogen adsorption over Co, MoNi, and Co/ MoNi. (q) Free-energy barriers for each elementary reaction of stepwise HzOR over Co, MoNi, and Co/MoNi. (h) The d-band of DOS for Co/ MoNi- and N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub>-adsorbed Co/MoNi, and the dotted line marks the position of the d-band center

MoNi heterostructure, and the shift of d-band center after N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> adsorption closely is related to the dehydrogenation activity.<sup>3,21</sup> As shown in Fig. 6h and S45-S47,† the position of the total dband center for the Co/MoNi heterostructure (-0.92 eV) shifts to -0.81 eV after N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> adsorption, which indicates the activation of dehydrogenation for N-H bonds. Notably, the more intense d-band shift at Co sites (-1.83 to -1.60 eV) means that they possess stronger dehydrogenation activity than the MoNi sites (-1.68 to -1.49 eV). Moreover, crystal orbital Hamilton population (COHP) is further calculated to estimate the strength of N-H bonds. The integral of COHP (ICOHP) from the lowest energy to the position of the Fermi energy level indicates the amount of overlapping electron orbitals in N-H bonds. 65,66 Thus, lower electron orbital overlap (higher ICOHP) means weaker strength of N-H bonds.67 As shown in Fig. S48,† the highest ICOHP of N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub>-adsorbed Co (101) means that Co sites play key roles in promoting the dehydrogenation of N-H bonds. In all, the theoretical results reveal that the construction of the Co/MoNi heterostructure is beneficial for optimizing the

electronic structure, promoting reaction kinetics of water dissociation, and hydrogen adsorption steps in HER (major role: MoNi site) and stepwise dehydrogenation in HzOR (major role: Co site).

#### 4 Conclusion

In summary, we synthesized the bifunctional electrode that involves metallic hierarchical Co/MoNi heterostructuredecorated self-supported monocrystalline CoNiMoOx nanorods grown on Ni foam for HzOR and HER with accelerated activity and stability. Specifically, it drives 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> with an ultralow potential of -23 mV (vs. RHE) for HzOR in the solution of 1.0 M NaOH with 0.5 M N2H4 and exhibits Pt-like efficient activity for HER with extremely low potential of -79 mV (vs. RHE) at 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> in the solution of 1.0 M NaOH with 0.5 M Impressively, the CoNiMo/CoNiMoO<sub>x</sub> electrode-NaCl. assembled hybrid seawater electrolyzer for overall HzORassisted water splitting simultaneously accomplishes the efficient disposal of hydrazine-rich wastewater and energy-saving hydrogen generation from seawater, only requiring a cell voltage of 0.059 V to afford 100 mA cm $^{-2}$  with significantly reduced electricity consumption of only 0.143 kW h m $^{-3}$  H $_2$ . Furthermore, DFT calculations reveal that the highly enhanced HzOR and HER performances originate from the construction of the Co/MoNi that optimizing electronic structure to reduce the free-energy barriers of water dissociation and hydrogen adsorption in HER and promote more thermoneutral stepwise dehydrogenation in HzOR. This work paves a new avenue toward the rational design of an economical electrolyzer by integrating the metallic hierarchical heterostructure on the self-supported nanorods for achieving energy-saving HzOR-assisted hydrogen evolution.

# Conflicts of interest

There are no conflicts to declare.

# Acknowledgements

We sincerely thank the support from National Natural Science Foundation of China (no. 51674293) and Opening Project of Engineering Research Center of Nano-Geo Materials of Ministry of Education of China University of Geosciences (no. NGM2020KF001).

# References

- 1 M. S. Dresselhaus and I. L. Thomas, *Nature*, 2001, **414**, 332–337.
- 2 B. Zhang, X. Zheng, O. Voznyy, R. Comin, M. Bajdich, M. García-Melchor, L. Han, J. Xu, M. Liu, L. Zheng, F. P. García de Arquer, C. T. Dinh, F. Fan, M. Yuan, E. Yassitepe, N. Chen, T. Regier, P. Liu, Y. Li, P. De Luna, A. Janmohamed, H. L. Xin, H. Yang, A. Vojvodic and E. H. Sargent, *Science*, 2016, 352, 333–337.
- 3 Q. Liu, X. Liao, Y. Tang, J. Wang, X. Lv, X. Pan, R. Lu, Y. Zhao, X.-Y. Yu and H. B. Wu, *Energy Environ. Sci.*, 2022, **15**, 3246–3256.
- 4 Y. Niu, S. Gong, X. Liu, C. Xu, M. Xu, S.-G. Sun and Z. Chen, *eScience*, 2022, **2**, 546–556.
- 5 P. W. Menezes, A. Indra, C. Das, C. Walter, C. Göbel, V. Gutkin, D. Schmeiβer and M. Driess, *ACS Catal.*, 2017, 7, 103–109.
- 6 J. Wang, W. Cui, Q. Liu, Z. Xing, A. M. Asiri and X. Sun, Adv. Mater., 2016, 28, 215–230.
- 7 L. Liao, J. Sun, D. Li, F. Yu, Y. Zhu, Y. Yang, J. Wang, W. Zhou, D. Tang, S. Chen and H. Zhou, *Small*, 2020, **16**, 1906629.
- 8 F. Yu, H. Zhou, Y. Huang, J. Sun, F. Qin, J. Bao, W. A. Goddard, S. Chen and Z. Ren, *Nat. Commun.*, 2018, 9, 2551.
- 9 S. Dresp, F. Dionigi, M. Klingenhof and P. Strasser, *ACS Energy Lett.*, 2019, 4, 933–942.
- 10 L. Wu, L. Yu, F. Zhang, B. McElhenny, D. Luo, A. Karim, S. Chen and Z. Ren, Adv. Funct. Mater., 2021, 31, 2006484.
- L. Wu, L. Yu, B. McElhenny, X. Xing, D. Luo, F. Zhang, J. Bao,
   S. Chen and Z. Ren, *Appl. Catal.*, B, 2021, 294, 120256.

- 12 Y. Zhao, B. Jin, Y. Zheng, H. Jin, Y. Jiao and S.-Z. Qiao, *Adv. Energy Mater.*, 2018, **8**, 1801926.
- 13 Y. Kuang, M. J. Kenney, Y. Meng, W. H. Hung, Y. Liu, J. E. Huang, R. Prasanna, P. Li, Y. Li, L. Wang, M. C. Lin, M. D. McGehee, X. Sun and H. Dai, *Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A.*, 2019, 116, 6624–6629.
- 14 L. Yu, Q. Zhu, S. Song, B. McElhenny, D. Wang, C. Wu, Z. Qin, J. Bao, Y. Yu, S. Chen and Z. Ren, *Nat. Commun.*, 2019, 10, 5106.
- 15 Z. Li, X. He, Q. Qian, Y. Zhu, Y. Feng, W. Wan and G. Zhang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.*, 2023, 2304079.
- 16 T. Kou, S. Wang and Y. Li, ACS Mater. Lett., 2021, 3, 224-234.
- 17 M. F. Lagadec and A. Grimaud, *Nat. Mater.*, 2020, **19**, 1140–1150.
- 18 L. Zhang, Z. Wang and J. Qiu, Adv. Mater., 2022, 34, 2109321.
- 19 W.-J. Liu, Z. Xu, D. Zhao, X.-Q. Pan, H.-C. Li, X. Hu, Z.-Y. Fan, W.-K. Wang, G.-H. Zhao, S. Jin, G. W. Huber and H.-Q. Yu, *Nat. Commun.*, 2020, 11, 265.
- 20 S.-K. Geng, Y. Zheng, S.-Q. Li, H. Su, X. Zhao, J. Hu, H.-B. Shu, M. Jaroniec, P. Chen, Q.-H. Liu and S.-Z. Qiao, *Nat. Energy*, 2021, 6, 904–912.
- 21 Y. Liu, J. Zhang, Y. Li, Q. Qian, Z. Li, Y. Zhu and G. Zhang, *Nat. Commun.*, 2020, **11**, 1853.
- 22 F. Sun, J. Qin, Z. Wang, M. Yu, X. Wu, X. Sun and J. Qiu, *Nat. Commun.*, 2021, 12, 4182.
- 23 Y. Li, J. Zhang, Y. Liu, Q. Qian, Z. Li, Y. Zhu and G. Zhang, *Sci. Adv.*, 2020, **6**, eabb4197.
- 24 Y. Li, J. Li, Q. Qian, X. Jin, Y. Liu, Z. Li, Y. Zhu, Y. Guo and G. Zhang, *Small*, 2021, **17**, 2008148.
- 25 Z. Li, W. Wang, Q. Qian, Y. Zhu, Y. Feng, Y. Zhang, H. Zhang, M. Cheng and G. Zhang, eScience, 2022, 2, 416–427.
- 26 N. S. K. Gowthaman, S. Shankar and S. A. John, *ACS Sustainable Chem. Eng.*, 2018, **6**, 17302–17313.
- 27 M. Vogel, A. Büldt and U. Karst, J. Anal. Chem., 2000, 366, 781–791.
- 28 G. Choudhary and H. Hansen, *Chemosphere*, 1998, 37, 801–843.
- 29 D. P. Elder, D. Snodin and A. Teasdale, *J. Pharm. Biomed. Anal.*, 2011, **54**, 900–910.
- 30 Q. Qian, J. Zhang, J. Li, Y. Li, X. Jin, Y. Zhu, Y. Liu, Z. Li, A. El-Harairy, C. Xiao, G. Zhang and Y. Xie, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.*, 2021, **60**, 5984–5993.
- 31 C. C. L. McCrory, S. Jung, J. C. Peters and T. F. Jaramillo, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.*, 2013, **135**, 16977–16987.
- 32 A. Kumar, V. Q. Bui, J. Lee, A. R. Jadhav, Y. Hwang, M. G. Kim, Y. Kawazoe and H. Lee, ACS Energy Lett., 2021, 6, 354–363.
- 33 G. Feng, Y. Kuang, P. Li, N. Han, M. Sun, G. Zhang and X. Sun, *Adv. Sci.*, 2017, 4, 1600179.
- 34 Q. Qian, Y. Li, Y. Liu, Y. Guo, Z. Li, Y. Zhu and G. Zhang, *Chem. Eng. J.*, 2021, **414**, 128818.
- 35 T. L. L. Doan, D. C. Nguyen, S. Prabhakaran, D. H. Kim, D. T. Tran, N. H. Kim and J. H. Lee, *Adv. Funct. Mater.*, 2021, **31**, 2100233.
- 36 Z. Xiao, M. Yang, C. Liu, B. Wang, S. Zhang, J. Liu, Z. Xu, R. Gao, J.-J. Zou, A. Tang and H. Yang, *Nano Energy*, 2022, 98, 107233.

- 37 J. Zhang, Q. Guo, X. Li, C. Li, K. Wu, I. Abrahams, H. Yan, M. M. Knight, C. J. Humphreys and L. Su, ACS Nano, 2020, 14, 11029-11039.
- 38 L. Wang, Y. Huang, A. Waleed, K. Wu, C. Lin, Z. Wang, G. Zheng, Z. Fan, J. Sun, H. Zhou, L.-D. Sun and C.-H. Yan, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces, 2017, 9, 25985-25994.
- 39 Y. Zou, K. Zhou, G. Liu, N. Xu, X. Zhang, Y. Yang, J. Zhang and J. Zheng, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces, 2021, 13, 16427-16436.
- 40 Z. Xiao, J. Wang, C. Liu, B. Wang, Q. Zhang, Z. Xu, M. T. Sarwar, A. Tang and H. Yang, Appl. Surf. Sci., 2022, 602, 154314.
- 41 F. Dury, M. A. Centeno, E. M. Gaigneaux and P. Ruiz, Appl. Catal., A, 2003, 247, 231-246.
- 42 C. Ye, J. Liu, O. Zhang, X. Jin, Y. Zhao, Z. Pan, G. Chen, Y. Qiu, D. Ye, L. Gu, G. I. N. Waterhouse, L. Guo and S. Yang, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2021, 143, 14169-14177.
- 43 G. Solomon, A. Landström, R. Mazzaro, M. Jugovac, P. Moras, E. Cattaruzza, V. Morandi, I. Concina and A. Vomiero, Adv. Energy Mater., 2021, 11, 2101324.
- 44 J. Z. Ou, J. L. Campbell, D. Yao, W. Wlodarski and K. Kalantar-Zadeh, J. Phys. Chem. C, 2011, 115, 10757-10763.
- 45 M. M. Y. A. Alsaif, K. Latham, M. R. Field, D. D. Yao, N. V. Medehkar, G. A. Beane, R. B. Kaner, S. P. Russo, J. Z. Ou and K. Kalantar-Zadeh, Adv. Mater., 2014, 26, 3931-3937.
- 46 C. Xu, J. Zhan, Z. Wang, X. Fang, J. Chen, F. Liang, H. Zhao and Y. Lei, Mater. Today Energy, 2021, 19, 100594.
- 47 L. Wu, J. Hu, X. Yang, Z. Liang, S. Chen, L. Liu, H. Hou and J. Yang, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2022, 10, 23811-23822.
- 48 Y.-Y. Chen, Y. Zhang, X. Zhang, T. Tang, H. Luo, S. Niu, Z.-H. Dai, L.-J. Wan and J.-S. Hu, Adv. Mater., 2017, 29, 1703311.
- 49 D. Wang, C. Han, Z. Xing, Q. Li and X. Yang, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2018, 6, 15558-15563.
- 50 Y. Luo, Z. Zhang, F. Yang, J. Li, Z. Liu, W. Ren, S. Zhang and B. Liu, Energy Environ. Sci., 2021, 14, 4610-4619.

- 51 V. K. Singh, U. Gupta, B. Mukherjee, S. Chattopadhyay and S. Das, ACS Appl. Nano Mater., 2021, 4, 886-896.
- 52 D. Liu, T. Liu, L. Zhang, F. Qu, G. Du, A. M. Asiri and X. Sun, J. Mater. Chem. A, 2017, 5, 3208-3213.
- 53 X. Li, Y. Wang, J. Wang, Y. Da, J. Zhang, L. Li, C. Zhong, Y. Deng, X. Han and W. Hu, Adv. Mater., 2020, 32, 2003414.
- 54 T. T. Yang and W. A. Saidi, J. Phys. Chem. Lett., 2020, 11, 2759-2764.
- 55 K. L. Zhou, Z. Wang, C. B. Han, X. Ke, C. Wang, Y. Jin, Q. Zhang, J. Liu, H. Wang and H. Yan, Nat. Commun., 2021, 12, 3783.
- 56 Y. Li, K. Yin, L. Wang, X. Lu, Y. Zhang, Y. Liu, D. Yan, Y. Song and S. Luo, Appl. Catal., B, 2018, 239, 537-544.
- 57 C. Wang, Y. Li, X. Wang and J. Tu, J. Electron. Mater., 2021, **50**, 5072-5080.
- 58 J. Kibsgaard, T. F. Jaramillo and F. Besenbacher, Nat. Chem., 2014, 6, 248-253.
- 59 J. Sun, F. Tian, F. Yu, Z. Yang, B. Yu, S. Chen, Z. Ren and H. Zhou, ACS Catal., 2019, 10, 1511-1519.
- 60 S. Anantharaj, S. Noda, V. R. Jothi, S. Yi, M. Driess and P. W. Menezes, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2021, 60, 18981-
- 61 Z. Jia, R. Ding, W. Yu, Y. Li, A. Wang, M. Liu, F. Yang, X. Sun and E. Liu, Adv. Funct. Mater., 2021, 32, 2107674.
- 62 Z. Xiao, M. Yang, J. Wang, Z. Xu, S. Zhang, A. Tang, R. Gao and H. Yang, Appl. Catal., B, 2022, 303, 120913.
- 63 K. L. Zhou, Z. Wang, C. B. Han, X. Ke, C. Wang, Y. Jin, Q. Zhang, J. Liu, H. Wang and H. Yan, Nat. Commun., 2021, 12, 3783.
- 64 X. Huang, X. Xu, X. Luan and D. Cheng, Nano Energy, 2020, 68, 104332.
- 65 J. Jiao, G. Lai, S. Qin, C. Fang, X. Xu, Y. Jiang, C. Ouyang and J. Zheng, Acta Mater., 2022, 238, 118229.
- 66 D. Luo, J. Lv, F. Peng, Y. Wang, G. Yang, M. Rahm and Y. Ma, Chem. Sci., 2019, 10, 2543-2550.
- 67 R. Nelson, C. Ertural, J. George, V. L. Deringer, G. Hautier and R. Dronskowski, J. Comput. Chem., 2020, 41, 1931-1940.