---
source: Xu 等 - 2025 - Rational Design of Low‐Crystallinity RuMo Alloy Nanofibers Coupled with MoO2 Domains Enab.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 45.740s
generated: 2026-01-10T08:08:44.974363Z
---

# **Rational Design of Low-Crystallinity RuMo Alloy Nanofibers Coupled with MoO2 Domains Enables Significantly Promoted Hydrazine Oxidation-Assisted H2 Production**

*Meijiao Xu, Jiaqi Xu, Linfeng Zhang, Xianqiang Yu, Siyu Ren, Siqi Zhang, Mingbin Gao,\* Mengxiao Zhong,\* and Xiaofeng Lu\**

**Hydrazine oxidation-assisted water electrolysis emerges as a promising strategy with low thermodynamic requirements and eco-friendly byproducts, yet designing highly efficient bifunctional catalysts for alkaline hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR) remains challenging. Herein, a novel heterostructure comprising low-crystallinity Ruthenium molybdenum (RuMo) alloy nanofibers coupled with molybdenum dioxide (MoO2) domains is presented as a bifunctional electrocatalyst for both HER and HzOR. The optimized catalyst achieves ultralow overpotentials of 31/170 mV for HER at 10/1000 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and working potentials of –0.073/0.028 V for HzOR at 10/500 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, significantly surpassing the benchmark Pt/C catalyst. Theoretical calculations reveal that the coupling of RuMo alloy with MoO2 regulates the** *d***-band center, promotes water dissociation and modulates H\* adsorption, thereby realizing superior HER kinetics. The heterostructure also optimizes the reaction pathway to reduce the energy barrier for hydrazine dehydrogenation, achieving an enhanced HzOR performance. Inspiringly, the assembled two-electrode system for overall hydrazine splitting (OHzS) achieves a low power consumption of 1.52 kWh m<sup>−</sup><sup>3</sup> H2, greatly surpassing Ru NFs-based cell (3.78 kWh m<sup>−</sup><sup>3</sup> H2). Furthermore, a rechargeable zinc (Zn)-hydrazine battery is constructed, showing great potential in practical application.**

M. Xu, J. Xu, L. Zhang, X. Yu, S. Ren, S. Zhang, X. Lu Alan G. MacDiarmid Institute College of Chemistry Jilin University Changchun 130012, P. R. China E-mail: [xflu@jlu.edu.cn](mailto:xflu@jlu.edu.cn)

M. Gao

State Key Laboratory of Physical Chemistry of Solid Surfaces College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Xiamen University

Xiamen 361005, P. R. China E-mail: [mbgao@xmu.edu.cn](mailto:mbgao@xmu.edu.cn)

M. Zhong

State Key Laboratory of Integrated Optoelectronics Key Laboratory of Advanced Gas Sensors College of Electronic Science and Engineering Jilin University

Changchun 130012, P. R. China E-mail: [zhongmx@jlu.edu.cn](mailto:zhongmx@jlu.edu.cn)

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.202501970>

**DOI: 10.1002/aenm.202501970**

# **1. Introduction**

Green hydrogen (H2) has emerged as a promising alternative to fossil fuels, facilitated by the process of clean water electrolysis.[\[1\]](#page-8-0) However, this method encounters a pivotal challenge, that is its inherently slow oxygen evolution reaction (OER) kinetics at the anode, leading to a significant increase in energy consumption[\[2\]](#page-9-0) To address this issue, recent development has targeted the replacement of OER with thermodynamically favorable small molecules oxidation reactions. When integrated with the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER), these hybrid systems concurrently the principal advantages including enhanced reaction kinetics, a reduction in energy input, and the production of value-added chemicals from the oxidation of organic substrates such as aldehydes, alcohols, amines, and urea.[\[3\]](#page-9-0) Of particular significance is the hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR) which proceeds as N2H4+4OH–→N2+4H2O+4e– with an

ultralow theoretical potential of –0.33 V relative to reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) and inert N2 product, enabling a great benefit for energy-efficiency and inherently safe framework.[\[4\]](#page-9-0) Consequently, the integration of HzOR with HER establishes a reliable and energy-efficient platform for sustainable H2 production.

To improve the electrocatalytic performance of HER and HzOR, the rational design of suitable catalysts is crucial. Platinum (Pt)-based catalysts exhibit exceptional bifunctional electrocatalytic performance for both HER and HzOR, however, their prohibitively high cost significantly limits practical applications.[[5\]](#page-9-0) This economic constraint has driven substantial interest in developing alternative catalytic systems that combine relatively low-cost precious metals with transition metals. Notably, ruthenium (Ru) emerges as a promising substitute due to its structural similarity to Pt and tunable 4*d* electronic configuration, which enables effective modulation of adsorption energetics.[\[6\]](#page-9-0) Previous studies have confirmed the dualfunctional capability of Ru-based catalysts in both HER and HzOR processes.[\[7\]](#page-9-0) A representative example includes the Ru

antimony (Sb) nanobranches, which demonstrated remarkable catalytic activity due to the Sb-induced optimization of hydrogen adsorption energy ( $\Delta G_{H^*}$ ) for HER and reduced energy barrier in the rate-determining step (RDS) of HzOR.[8] Beyond fundamental catalytic enhancement, such bifunctional systems present practical advantages in energy device engineering. However, the Ru-based catalyst can be oxidized into soluble oxides in an alkaline medium, resulting in a decrease in active sites.<sup>[9]</sup> Moreover, the uneven loss of atoms will disrupt the arrangement and electronic structure of surface atoms. thereby affecting the activity and stability of the catalyst.[9] Recent studies have shown that alloying with transition metals and establishing appropriate heterostructures can regulate the electronic structure of Ru, optimize the binding energy, increase the active sites and accelerate electron transfer, thus improving the intrinsic activity and stability of the catalyst. [9a,10] Among transition metals, the variable valence state of molybdenum (Mo) makes it more conducive to the regulation and optimization of the electronic structure, while molybdenum dioxide (MoO<sub>2</sub>) becomes a potential catalyst for HER due to its greater number of Mo and O edge active sites.[11] Furthermore, previous studies have revealed a synergistic between Ru and Mo species, which aligns with the Brewer-Engel theory.[12] Notably, Ru-Mo bonding leads to a strong d-d hybridization interaction, which enhances the oxidation resistance of Mo and the anti-bonding energy level of Mo-O\*.[12b] This causes the electrons in the O 2p orbitals to preferentially flow to the M-O orbitals, effectively inhibiting the migration of Mo and thereby improving the electrocatalytic activity and stability. Meanwhile, amorphous catalysts with numerous dangling bonds, abundant unsaturated surface atoms, and isotropic property demonstrate excellent electrocatalytic performance, which have attracted significant interest among researchers.[13]

Inspired by the above-mentioned discussions, low-crystalline RuMo alloy nanofibers (NFs) coupled with MoO<sub>2</sub> domains have been obtained through a simple electrospinning-calcinationin situ reduction strategy. The heterostructure between lowcrystalline RuMo alloy and MoO2 domains modulates the dband structure of the catalyst, which optimizes the H\* adsorption and the pathway for hydrazine dehydrogenation, thus significantly promoting the HER and HzOR performance. The optimized catalyst requires an overpotential of merely 31 mV to reach 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for HER and a working potential of -0.073 V at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> for HzOR, both outperforming the control samples and commercial Pt/C catalyst. Furthermore, the HzOR-assisted water electrolysis system based on the RuMo/MoO2-1 NFs electrodes shows a low energy consumption of 1.52 kWh m<sup>-3</sup> H<sub>2</sub>, which is far superior to Ru NFs-based cell (3.78 kWh m<sup>-3</sup> H<sub>2</sub>) under the same conditions. Furthermore, the assembled twoelectrode cell presents excellent stability over 100 h at the current density of 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. In addition, the RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs sample has been constructed as a Zn-hydrazine battery, possessing an open circuit voltage of 0.36 V and performing 240 charge-discharge cycles with a slight attenuation, highlighting its enormous potential in practical application.

# 2. Results and Discussion

#### 2.1. Morphologic and Compositional Investigation

The synthesis of low-crystallinity RuMo alloy NFs coupled with MoO<sub>2</sub> domains is achieved through a straightforward process involving electrospinning, calcination, and in situ reduction procedure (Figure 1a). The morphology of the RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs with a feeding ratio of Ru/Mo (1:1) is examined using field emission scanning electron microscopy (FESEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM), presenting a well-defined fibrous morphology with an average diameter of 85.7 nm (Figure 1b,c; Figure S1, Supporting Information). The control sample of  $RuMo/MoO_2$ -2 NFs (Ru/Mo = 2:1) exhibit similar nanofibrous morphology and comparable average diameter (Figure S2, Supporting Information). However, in the RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-3 NFs sample (Ru/Mo = 1:2), both nanofibers and nanosheets are observed, which correspond to the Mo species associated with the previous reports (Figure S3, Supporting Information).[14] The single-component Mo sample has a lamellar structure, while bare Ru possesses a shorter and less perfect nanofibrous structure (Figures \$4 and \$5, Supporting Information). Figure \$6 (Supporting Information) depicts the X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns of the RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs and the control samples. It is found that a broad diffraction peak centered at around 42.5 degree is detected, which aligns with the previously reported diffraction peak of RuMo alloy<sup>[15]</sup> and also corresponds to the selected area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern with the distinct diffraction ring (Figure S7, Supporting Information). The control samples of RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-2 NFs and RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-3 NFs exhibit similar diffraction peaks to RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs. In contrast, the single-component counterparts are identified as highcrystallinity metallic Ru and MoO<sub>v</sub>, respectively (Figures S8 and S9, Supporting Information). This comparison demonstrates that the formation of both RuMo alloy and MoO2 significantly reduce their crystallinity. This decrease is attributed to heteroatom incorporation into their crystal lattices, which disrupts longrange atomic ordering and introduces structural disorder.[12b,16] Furthermore, the investigation reveals that the crystallinity of the RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs sample increases with a higher reduction temperature in H<sub>2</sub>/Ar atmosphere (Figure S10, Supporting Information). When the reduction temperature reaches 700 °C, the broad diffraction peak of the RuMo alloy resolves into strong and sharp peaks, indicating substantially enhanced crystallinity. This transition stems from thermal energy overcoming intermolecular forces, facilitating a phase transformation from poorly crystalline to highly ordered structures.[13b,16] Consequently, the low crystallinity observed in the RuMo alloy and MoO2 domains under standard synthesis conditions likely results from insufficient calcination temperatures, which impede the development of long-range atomic ordering. Notably, metallic Mo forms from the reduction treatment at a high temperature of 700 °C under H<sub>2</sub>/Ar, also exhibiting high crystallinity (Figure S11, Supporting Information).

To investigate the constituent elements of RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs, we employ spherical aberration-corrected high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) for detailed analysis (Figure 1d). Subsequent to this, a

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** Morphological and structural characterizations of catalysts. a) Schematic illustration of the preparation of RuMo/MoO2-1 NFs. b) SEM, c) TEM, d,e) spherical aberration-corrected HAADF-STEM images of RuMo/MoO2-1 NFs. f) Line profile corresponding to the intensity variations between different atomic species. The inverse FFT of g) area I and h) area II in figure 1d. XANES spectra for the i) Ru K-edge and k) Mo K-edge. Fourier transforms of j) Ru K-edge and l) Mo K-edge EXAFS spectra. Wavelet-transform EXAFS for m) the Ru K-edge and n) the Mo K-edge of RuMo/MoO2-1 NFs.

line-scan analysis on the magnified HADDF-STEM image is conducted, wherein the bright spots are identified as Ru and Mo. The lower imaging contrast for Mo atoms is indicative of the imaging characteristics of light elements, which have lower atomic numbers compared to the Ru element (Figure 1e,f).[\[17\]](#page-9-0) The inverse fast Fourier transform (FFT) images of the area I and II in Figure 1d present two typical lattice spacings of 2.13 Å and 2.41 Å (Figure 1g,h; Figure S12, Supporting Information), which are ascribed to (002) facet of RuMo alloy[\[15\]](#page-9-0) and (002) plane of MoO2 (PDF#86-0135). These findings confirm that the resultant catalyst is formed by the integration of RuMo alloy and MoO2 domains. The energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX) spectrum conforms the existence of Ru, Mo and O elements within the sample (Figure S13, Supporting Information). Moreover, the elemental line scanning and mapping provide the evidence of the uniform distribution of Ru, Mo, and O throughout the RuMo/MoO2-1 NFs catalyst (Figure S14, Supporting Information).

The electronic structure and local coordination environment of Ru and Mo in the RuMo/MoO2-1 NFs are elucidated utilizing X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) measurement. As depicted in Figure 1i, the normalized X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) spectrum of Ru K-edge reveals that the absorption energy of Ru is close to that of the Ru foil. This demonstrates that the Ru atoms predominantly reside in a metallic state within the low-crystallinity RuMo/MoO2-1 NFs. The local structure of Ru is further analyzed through the k2-weighted extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra at the Ru K-edge. As displayed in the Figure 1j, the primary peak for RuMo/MoO2-1 NFs is observed at 2.67 Å, with a slight displacement that can be ascribed to the presence of Mo, suggesting to the formation of Ru-Ru/Mo coordination.[\[12b,15\]](#page-9-0) The EXAFS fitting data and the

ADVANCED ENERGY MATERIALS

16146849, 2025, 41, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wilej.com/doi/10.1002/nem.202501970 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library or [07/0/12/05], See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA atticles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

small wavelet transformation of Ru intuitively highlight a strong Ru-Ru/Mo peak in RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs (Figure 1m; Figures S15 and S16; Table S1, Supporting Information), corroborating the formation of the RuMo alloy within the NFs. Similarly, the Mo K-edge XANES and EXAFS spectra are employed to elucidate the electronic structure and local coordination environment of Mo within RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs. The absorption energy of Mo is intermediate between that of Mo foil and MoO<sub>2</sub> (Figure 1k), suggesting a mixed coordination environment. In the EXAFS spectrum, the peak at 2.75 Å is assigned to Mo-Mo/Ru coordination, while the peak at 2.08 Å is attributed to Mo-O coordination (Figure 11).[18] The EXAFS fitting data (Figure S17; Table S2, Supporting Information) and the small wavelet transformation images (Figure 1n; Figure S18, Supporting Information) verify the co-existence of Mo-Mo/Ru and Mo-O bonds within the NFs. This finding aligns with the observation from HAADF-STEM analysis, robustly confirming the structural integrity of the RuMo alloy coupling MoO<sub>2</sub> domains within the RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was applied to determine the electronic structures of RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs, revealing the presence of C, O, Ru and Mo elements (Figure S19, Supporting Information). As illustrated in Figure \$20 (Supporting Information), the Ru species in both RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs and bare Ru sample predominantly exist in a metallic state, albeit with inevitable traces of oxidation due to air exposure.<sup>[19]</sup> In comparison to the Ru reference, the binding energy of Ru<sup>0</sup> in RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs exhibits a slight positive shift. The Mo 3d XPS spectrum of RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs, as compared to the control individual Mo sample, demonstrates the coexistence of metallic and  $\delta^+$  states (Figure S21, Supporting Information),<sup>[20]</sup> suggesting that a portion of Mo has formed an alloy with Ru and remains stable. Additionally, the binding energy of Mo<sup>6+</sup> in RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs shows a negative shift, indicative of the electron transfer from Ru to Mo. In Figure S22 (Supporting Information), the O 1s spectrum of RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs displays three distinct peaks, which correspond to Mo–O bond, hydroxyl groups, and the surface absorbed water.[20a]

### 2.2. HER Property

The HER performance of the as-prepared catalysts is evaluated using a standard three-electrode system in 1 M KOH. After cyclic voltammetry (CV) stabilization, the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves demonstrate the superior HER performance of RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs (Figure 2a; Figure S23, Supporting Information). In detail, an overpotential of 31 mV at 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> is realized, which is much lower than bare Ru NFs (67 mV) and individual Mo catalyst (368 mV). The HER properties of the catalysts with varying feeding ratios of Ru/Mo and the RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1-700 NFs with a high crystallinity are also examined (Figures \$24 and \$25, Supporting Information). It is found that the lowcrystallinity RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs catalyst also exhibit the better HER activity compared to RuMo/MoO2-2 NFs, RuMo/MoO2-3 NFs and high-crystalline RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1-700 NFs, indicating that a reasonable metal ratio and low-crystallinity structure are the keys to the exceptional performance. Most importantly, the optimized low-crystallinity RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs catalyst presents an exceptional HER efficiency at ampere-level current density. At 1 A cm<sup>-2</sup>, the RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs exhibits an overpotential of 170 mV, outperforming not only the control samples of RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-2 NFs (185 mV), RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-3 NFs (215 mV), bare Ru NFs (450 mV), individual Mo (>450 mV), but also the state-of-the-art Pt/C catalyst (415 mV) (Table \$3, Supporting Information). Moreover, the Tafel slope of RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs toward HER process is calculated to be 12.47 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, which is lower than those of RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-2 NFs (18.61 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-3 NFs (23.57 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), bare Ru NFs (110.11 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ), individual Mo (157.92 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ), and Pt/C (16.10 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), illustrating the faster reaction kinetics for HER (Figure 2b; Figure S26, Supporting Information). The outstanding kinetic and performance surpass some recently reported catalysts (Figure 2c; Table S4, Supporting Information). Nyquist plots are acquired through electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) measurement and subsequent data fitting (Figure S27, Supporting Information). As evident from Figure 2d, the charge transfer resistance (R<sub>ct</sub>) of RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs is 2.87 Ω, which is much lower than those of RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-2 NFs (3.24  $\Omega$ ), RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-3 NFs (4.49  $\Omega$ ), bare Ru NFs (27.18  $\Omega$ ) and individual Mo (626.5  $\Omega$ ), demonstrating its superior electrical conductivity and promoted electron transfer property during the HER process. As displayed in Table \$3 (Supporting Information), the performances of the RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub> NFs catalysts are markedly superior to that of the single-component catalysts, indicating that the electronic interaction and synergistic effects between the RuMo alloy and MoO2 domains substantially enhances the HER performance. Additionally, the double layer capacitance (C<sub>dl</sub>) is measured to assess the electrochemical surface area (ECSA) and investigate the intrinsic activity of the catalysts (Figure 2e; Figure S28; Table S5, Supporting Information). The calculated ECSA of RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs is 110.25 cm<sup>2</sup>, which exceeds those of RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-2 NFs (99.67 cm<sup>2</sup>), RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-3 NFs (61.20 cm<sup>2</sup>), bare Ru NFs (36.23 cm<sup>2</sup>) and individual Mo (0.9 cm<sup>2</sup>). Generally, a larger ECSA implies a greater number of active sites exposed to the electrolyte, thereby enhancing the catalytic performance.[21] After ECSA-normalizing, RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs, RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-2 NFs and RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-3 NFs exhibits comparable HER properties, showing their comparable intrinsic activities, which are much better than control bare Ru NFs (Figure \$29, Supporting Information). The mass activity (MA) and the turnover frequency (TOF) for each catalyst are calculated (Figures \$30 and \$31, Supporting Information). The RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs possess the highest TOF value of 0.71 s<sup>-1</sup> and the largest MA of  $1400 \,\mathrm{Ag^{-1}}$  at the potential of  $-0.20 \,\mathrm{V}$  versus RHE (Figure 2f; Table S5, Supporting Information), further underscoring the faster kinetics and higher intrinsic activity of our prepared catalyst. The comprehensive performance comparison of the catalysts is displayed in Figure 2g, where RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs demonstrates the most favorable electrocatalytic HER performance in this work.

The long-term stability is also a critical factor in evaluating the catalyst performance. The i-t curve in Figure 2h reveals that the RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs sustain superior electrocatalytic activity for 150 h at a constant current density of 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> with negligible alteration of the LSV curve even after 2000 cycles (Figure S32, Supporting Information), indicative of exceptional durability. Following the HER stability test, RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs exhibit no significant morphological and crystal structural changes, and the carbon diffraction peak in XRD pattern roots in the carbon

<span id="page-4-0"></span>Figure 2. HER property in 1 M KOH. a) LSV curves and b) corresponding Tafel plots of RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs, bare Ru, Mo, and Pt/C. c) Comparison of overpotentials at 1 A cm<sup>-2</sup> as a function of the Tafel slopes of various electrocatalysts. d) The Nyquist plots at -0.121 V versus RHE and e) the relationship between capacitive current density and scan rates for different catalysts. f) Comparison of TOF and MA values of varied catalysts at -0.2 V versus RHE. g) Comprehensive performance comparison of different catalysts for HER. h) I-t curve of RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs for HER at  $\approx 100$  mA cm<sup>-2</sup>.

paper support (Figures S33 and S34, Supporting Information). The XPS spectra of Ru 3p and Mo 3d still show the presence of both metallic Ru and multiple valence states of Mo, suggesting the minor changes in the electronic state of the catalyst surface after the HER process (Figures S35 and S36, Supporting Information).

### 2.3. HzOR Property

Efficient bifunctional catalysts have garnered significant research interest in recent studies aimed at overall water splitting, with HzOR emerging as a promising alternative to OER for  $\rm H_2$  production. Consequently, we have evaluated the HzOR performance of the series of prepared catalysts in 1 M KOH/0.5 M hydrazine. Specifically, within the tested voltage range, the RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs catalyst still presents a superior HzOR performance, significantly exceeding that of bare Ru NFs and high-

crystalline RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1-700 NFs catalysts, while the Mo sample is inactive toward HzOR (Figure 3a; Figure S37, Supporting Information). The RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs achieve more negative potential of -0.073 V to reach 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, which is comparable to the those for RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-2 NFs and RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-3 NFs samples. Notably, the RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs represents the absolute advantage at high current density such as 500 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> with a potential of only 28 mV, which is substantially lower than that of RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-2 NFs (49 mV), RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-3 NFs (143 mV), bare Ru NFs (595 mV), and commercial Pt/C (277 mV) (Figure 3b; Figure S38; Table S6, Supporting Information). Concurrently, RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs also display a Tafel slope value of 9.02 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, which is lower than those of RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-2 NFs (10.96 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ), RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-3 NFs (16.61 mV  $dec^{-1}$ ) and bare Ru NFs (62.17 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>), signifying its fast kinetics for HzOR (Figure 3c). The superior performance of RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs is further substantiated through a comparative analysis with recently reported HzOR catalysts (Figure 3d; Table S7,

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 3.** HzOR properties in 1 M KOH/0.5 M Hz. a) LSV curves of RuMo/MoO2-1 NFs, bare Ru, Mo and Pt/C for HzOR. b) The corresponding voltage required for varied current densities of each catalyst. c) Tafel plots. d) Comparison of potentials at 10 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> as a function of the Tafel slopes for various electrocatalysts. e) The Nyquist plots at –0.031 V versus RHE of different catalysts. f) Comparison of TOF and MA values of different catalysts at 0.20 V versus RHE. g) Comprehensive performance comparison of different catalysts for HzOR. h) I-t curve of RuMo/MoO2-1 NFs for HzOR at ≈100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2.

Supporting Information). The reaction kinetics of HzOR is additionally evaluated using EIS measurement. As depicted in Figure 3e and Table S6 (Supporting Information), the Rct of RuMo/MoO2-1 NFs (2.02 Ω) is significantly lower than those of RuMo/MoO2-2 (2.97 Ω).

RuMo/MoO2-3 (4.41 Ω) and bare Ru NFs (21.09 Ω), confirming the most rapid electron transfer kinetics among the tested catalysts. Remarkably, RuMo/MoO2-1 NFs show a high mass activity of 1420 A g<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> and TOF value of 0.36 s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> at 0.20 V versus RHE (Figure 3f; Figures S39 and S40; Table S8, Supporting Information). In the radar chart of Figure 3g, the RuMo/MoO2-1 NFs encompasses the largest area, indicative of its comprehensive and exceptional performance. Moreover, at a current density of 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, the RuMo/MoO2-1 NFs catalyst demonstrates remarkable long-term stability, maintaining consistent performance throughout a continuous operation of 120 h (Figure 3h). The superior HzOR performance of the RuMo/MoO2-1 NFs can be attributed to the reasonable construction of RuMo alloy and effective coupling with MoO2 domains, which collectively facilitate the acceleration of the reaction kinetics, enhance electrical conductivity, and augment the overall catalytic efficacy. Subsequent to the HzOR stability test, no appreciable alterations in the morphology and XRD pattern of the RuMo/MoO2-1 NFs are detected. In the XPS spectrum, a minor negative shift of Mo 3d peaks is observed, indicating slight change of the valence state of Mo element during the HzOR process (Figures S41–S44, Supporting Information).

### **2.4. Mechanism Studies**

Density functional theory (DFT) calculations are conducted to elucidate the intrinsic electroactivity of the catalyst toward HER and HzOR. According to the HAADF-STEM image, the RuMo

<span id="page-6-0"></span>**Figure 4.** Mechanism studies. a) The theoretical model of the RuMo/MoO2-1 NFs at the interface between RuMo (002) and MoO2 (002). b) Charge density of RuMo/MoO2, RuMo, bare Ru and MoO2 models (from left to right). c) PDOS of RuMo/MoO2, RuMo and bare Ru. d) Calculated free energy diagrams for water dissociation and e) free energy diagrams for hydrogen desorption steps on varied models. f) HzOR peak potential versus log *v*. g) Reaction scheme and h) free energy diagram of HzOR process on varied models. The green, light green, red, blue and white spheres represent Ru, Mo, O, N and H atoms, respectively.

(002) and MoO2 (002) surfaces are selected to construct the optimized model of RuMo/MoO2-1 NFs (**Figure 4**a), with RuMo alloy, bare Ru and MoO2 as comparative models (Figure S45, Supporting Information). In contrast to the control models, the interface formed by RuMo alloy and MoO2 domains exhibits increased electron density, facilitating the electron transfer and electron redistribution at the interface (Figure 4b). To probe the impact of interfacial electron redistribution on the *d*-band centers, projected partial density of states (PDOSs) are computed. As demonstrated in Figure 4c, a progressive upshift in the *d*-band centers is noted, from –1.39 eV for RuMo/MoO2 interface, –1.32 eV for RuMo alloy, and further to –0.83 eV for Ru. This trend implies that the alloying of Mo with Ru and the coupling of RuMo alloy with MoO2 domains, evaluate the *d*-band center, corroborating the weak adsorption preference and ease of release to \*H during HER.[\[23\]](#page-9-0) Figure 4d presents a higher water dissociation energy barrier on Ru (1.17 eV), RuMo alloy (1.23 eV) and MoO2 (0.53 eV) (Figure S46, Supporting Information). Notably, the RuMo/MoO2 interface exhibits an even lower barrier of 0.44 eV, indicating that the incorporation of Mo and the synergy between RoMo alloy and MoO2 domains effectively facilitate the cleavage of H-OH bonds. The \*H intermediates resulting from water dissociation will subsequently desorb from the catalytic sites to form H2. The ΔG value of \*H2O is below 0, indicating the adsorption of H2O occurs spontaneously, and the desorption of \*H is the rate-determining step. The adsorption energy of the \*H intermediate (ΔG\*H) for the RuMo/MoO2 interface (–0.40 eV) is closer to 0 eV compared to those of RuMo alloy (–0.47 eV), bare Ru (–0.55 eV) and MoO2 (1.43 eV) (Figure 4e). This suggests that the desorption of \*H intermediates and the production of H2 at the RuMo/MoO2 interface is easier and faster than that on RuMo alloy, Ru and MoO2 surfaces. Consequently, the high HER efficiency of RuMo/MoO2 NFs in an alkaline environment can be attributed to the reduced water dissociation energy barrier and the accelerated desorption

<span id="page-7-0"></span>Figure 5. Hydrazine oxidation-assisted overall water splitting and Zn-hydrazine battery performance. a) LSV curves of RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs||RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs and Ru NFs||Ru NFs cells without iR correction. b) Power consumption of RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs|| RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs and Ru NFs||Ru NFs system for H<sub>2</sub> production at 0.5 A cm<sup>-2</sup>. c) H<sub>2</sub> FEs of RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs||RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 and Ru NFs ||Ru NFs cells at 500 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. d) The i-t curve of RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs|| RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs||RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs||RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs||RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs||RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs||RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs-assembled Zn-hydrazine battery.

of \*H intermediates. For HzOR, two mechanisms have been previously proposed in the literature: one involves a four-step reaction mechanism of sequential dehydrogenation, and the other is the two-step double electron transfer pathway. To ascertain the reaction mechanism occuring on the surface of RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs, we have initiated our investigation with an experimental verification. From the CV curves (Figure S47, Supporting Information), the oxidation current is observed to increase with the scan rate, and the peak current density ( $j_p$ ) presents a well linearity with the square root of the sweep speed ( $\nu^{1/2}$ ) (Figure S48, Supporting Information), indicative of an irreversible diffusion-controlled HzOR process on RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs. [25] Basing on the above result, the potential corresponding to the peak current density ( $E_p$ ) can be expressed by the equation:  $E_p = (2.303RT/(1-\alpha) n_a F) \log \nu + K.$ [26] Subsequently, the electron number involved

in the rate-determining step ( $n_{\alpha}$ ) is calculated to be 1.09 from the slope of the plot in Figure 4f, confirming that the HzOR on RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs follows the stepwise dehydrogenation process from N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub> to N<sub>2</sub> (Figure 4g). Figures S49–S52 (Supporting Information) and Figure 4h displays that the dehydrogenation of N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>2</sub>\* to N<sub>2</sub>H\* is the rate-determining step (RDS) of RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub> and MoO<sub>2</sub>, whereas the RDS for RuMo alloy and bare Ru involves the dehydrogenation of N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>3</sub>\* to N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>2</sub>\*. Notably, the RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub> interface exhibits a lower RDS energy barrier of 0.70 eV compared to those of RuMo (0.78 eV), bare Ru (0.80 eV) and MoO<sub>2</sub> (3.66 eV), respectively, providing a robust theoretical foundation for the superior HzOR performance of RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs. DFT calculations suggest that the formation of RuMo alloy and the modulation of the d-band center through the coupling of RuMo alloy with MoO<sub>2</sub> domains substantially

<span id="page-8-0"></span>www.advancedsciencenews.com

www.advenergymat.de

ADVANCED ENERGY MATERIALS 16146480, 2025, 4.1, Downloaded from thttps://advanced.onlinelibrary.wilej.co.mdoi/10.11002/anm.202501970 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2051, See the Terms and Conditions) wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensea

optimize the adsorption/desorption behavior of key intermediates in the reactions, thereby contributing to the exceptional HER and HzOR properties.

# 2.5. Hydrazine Oxidation-Assisted Overall Water Splitting and Zn-Hydrazine Battery

In light of remarkable HER and HzOR activity of RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs, a hydrazine oxidation-assisted water splitting system is assembled with that as both anode and cathode, with 1 M KOH/0.5 M hydrazine as the electrolyte (Figure \$53, Supporting Information). As illustrated in Figure 5a, the RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs||RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs cell requires a voltage of merely 0.01 V to reach the current density of 10 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> without *iR* compensation, which is lower than that reported for some recently studied catalysts (Figure \$54; Table \$9, Supporting Information). Furthermore, to achieve a high current density of 1000 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, it only requires a voltage of 1.39 V. In contrast, the Ru NFs||Ru NFs cell only reaches 386 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> at the same voltage. The power consumptions of RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs|| RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs cell at 500 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> is then calculated to be 1.52 kWh m<sup>-3</sup> H<sub>2</sub> (Figure 5b), which is reduced by 60% of that of Ru NFs||Ru NFs system (3.78 kWh m<sup>-3</sup> H<sub>2</sub>). Interestingly, RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs and bare Ru NFs show a catalytic self-decomposing hydrazine property (Figures \$55 and \$56, Supporting Information). Excluding the influence of the gases produced by selfdecomposition, the H2 Faraday efficiency (FE) of RuMo/MoO2-1 NFs||RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs cell at the cathode reaches 92.0% at 500 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, significantly surpassing that of Ru NFs||Ru NFs system (84.8%) (Figure 5c; Figures S57 and S58, Supporting Information). Figure 5d presents the long-term stability of the RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs||RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs cell at 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. Evidently, the performance is readily restored with each fresh electrolyte replacement, and only a negligible decline is observed after 120 h, demonstrating its exceptional durability. Motivated by the superior HER and HzOR activity of RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs. a rechargeable Zn-hydrazine battery is assembled to explore its potential utility in energy storage and conversion application. The Zn-hydrazine battery comprises a Zn foil anode submerged in an electrolyte of 1.0 M KOH/0.02 M Zn (CH<sub>3</sub>COO)<sub>2</sub>, RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs as cathode immersed in 1.0 м KOH with 0.5 м hydrazine, and the anion exchange membrane as the separator (Figure 5e). During discharge, HER occurs at the cathode, producing  $H_2$  (Zn+2 $H_2$ O+2 OH<sup>-</sup> $\rightarrow H_2$ +Zn(OH)<sup>2-</sup>), while HzOR takes place at the cathode during charge, yielding N<sub>2</sub>  $(Zn(OH)_4^{2-}+1/2N_2H_4\rightarrow 1/2N_2+Zn+2OH^-+2H_2O).^{[27]}$  The assembled Zn-hydrazine battery maintain an open circuit voltage of 0.36 V for 2000 s (Figure \$59, Supporting Information), affirming the viability of RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs in Zn-hydrazine batteries. Moreover, the Zn-hydrazine battery demonstrates commendable charge and discharge characteristics, achieving a peak power density of 2.03 mW cm<sup>-2</sup> at 0.17 V (Figure 5f; Figures \$60 and \$61, Supporting Information). It also exhibits stable rechargeability, which can be recharged after discharging consistently at 2-22 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> (Figure S62, Supporting Information). To further assess the performance of the Zn-hydrazine battery, a cyclic stability test is conducted. As depicted in Figure 5g, the Zn-hydrazine battery can undergo 240 cycles (80 h) at 5 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> with minimal

voltage variation of 0.07 V, signifying the promising potential of RuMo/MoO $_2$ -1 NFs in the practical application in Zn-hydrazine batteries.

### 3. Conclusion

In summary, we have demonstrated a reliable route to construct a robust bifunctional electrocatalyst of RuMo alloy NFs coupling with MoO<sub>2</sub> domains for both HER and HzOR. Owing to the alloying effect of RuMo and the heterostructure between it with MoO<sub>2</sub> domains to modulate the *d*-band center as well as the low-crystallinity characteristic, this catalyst significantly optimized the adsorption/desorption behavior of the H\* and various nitrogen species intermediates in the electrocatalytic reactions, thereby promoting both the HER and HzOR performance. For hydrazine oxidation-assisted water electrolysis, the RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs||RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NFs cell demonstrates a significantly low energy consumption. Furthermore, the RuMo/MoO<sub>2</sub>-1 NF-based rechargeable Zn-hydrazine battery exhibits considerable potential for practical application.

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# Acknowledgements

This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (52273056, 22208337), the Jilin Province Science and Technology Development Program (20250102073JC), the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities (20720240060), and the Natural Science Foundation of Xiamen, China (3502Z202472002). The authors thank the staffs from the BL14W1 and BL20U beamline of National Facility at Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility for assistance in data collection of XAFS data.

# **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

# **Keywords**

bifunctional electrocatalyst, Hydrazine oxidation-assisted overall water splitting, MoO2 domains, RuMo alloy nanofibers, Zn-hydrazine battery

Received: April 7, 2025 Revised: August 4, 2025 Published online: September 1, 2025

[1] a) L. Chong, G. Gao, J. Wen, H. Li, H. Xu, Z. Green, J. D. Sugar, A. J. Kropf, W. Xu, X. Lin, H. Xu, L. Wang, D. Liu, Science 2023, 380, 609;

- <span id="page-9-0"></span>b) X. Zhao, D. He, B. Y. Xia, Y. Sun, B. You, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2210703; c) Z. W. Seh, J. Kibsgaard, C. F. Dickens, I. Chorkendorff, J. K. Nørskov, T. F. Jaramillo, *Science* **2017**, *355*, aad4998; d) W. Li, C. Wang, X. Lu, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, 3786; e) L. Zhang, W. Li, S. Ren, W. Song, C. Wang, X. Lu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2025**, *15*, 2403136; f) M. N. Hossain, L. Zhang, R. Neagu, S. Sun, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2025**, *54*, 3323.
- [2] a) C. Rong, X. Huang, H. Arandiyan, Z. Shao, Y. Wang, Y. Chen, *Adv. Mater.* **2025**, *37*, 2416362; b) M. Li, H. Wang, W. Zhu, W. Li, C. Wang, X. Lu, *Adv. Sci.* **2020**, *7*, 1901833; c) W. Li, C. Wang, X. Lu, *Nano Lett.* **2024**, *24*, 11779; d) W. Li, W. Gou, L. Zhang, M. Zhong, S. Ren, G. Yu, C. Wang, W. Chen, X. Lu, *Chem. Sci.* **2024**, *15*, 11890.
- [3] a) X. Wu, Y. Wang, Z. Wu, *Chem* **2022**, *8*, 2594; b) P. Wang, J. Zheng, X. Xu, Y. Zhang, Q. Shi, Y. Wan, S. Ramakrishna, J. Zhang, L. Zhu, T. Yokoshima, Y. Yamauchi, Y.-Z. Long, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2404806; c) M. Zhong, J. Yang, M. Xu, S. Ren, X. Chen, C. Wang, M. Gao, X. Lu, *Small* **2024**, *20*, 2304782.
- [4] a) H. Qin, G. Lin, J. Zhang, X. Cao, W. Xia, H. Yang, K. Yuan, T. Jin, Q. Wang, L. Jiao, *Adv. Mater.* **2025**, *37*, 2417593; b) S. Li, Y. Hou, G. Feng, Q. Li, H. Zhai, Q. Hua, R. Hu, M. Xu, C. Zhang, Z. Huang, D. Xia, *Adv. Mater.* **2025**, *37*, 2416200; c) Y. Wang, Q. Jiang, S. Ren, J. Xu, Y. Wang, M. Zhong, X. Lu, *Adv. Mater.* **2025**, *37*, 2504922.
- [5] a) Y. Yu, S. J. Lee, J. Theerthagiri, Y. Lee, M. Y. Choi, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2022**, *316*, 121603; b) Y. Huang, X. Zhang, L. Li, M. Humayun, H. Zhang, X. Xu, S. P. Anthony, Z. Chen, J. Zeng, D. V. Shtansky, K. Huo, H. Song, C. Wang, W. Zhang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2025**, *35*, 2401011.
- [6] a) A. R. Poerwoprajitno, L. Gloag, J. Watt, S. Cheong, X. Tan, H. Lei, H. A. Tahini, A. Henson, B. Subhash, N. M. Bedford, B. K. Miller, P. B. O'Mara, T. M. Benedetti, D. L. Huber, W. Zhang, S. C. Smith, J. J. Gooding, W. Schuhmann, R. D. Tilley, *Nat. Catal.* **2022**, *5*, 231; b) Z. Jiang, S. Song, X. Zheng, X. Liang, Z. Li, H. Gu, Z. Li, Y. Wang, S. Liu, W. Chen, D. Wang, Y. Li, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 19619.
- [7] a) X. Fu, D. Cheng, A. Zhang, J. Zhou, S. Wang, X. Zhao, J. Chen, P. Sautet, Y. Huang, X. Duan, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2024**, *17*, 2279; b) Y. Zhai, C. Jin, Q. Xia, W. Han, J. Wu, X. Zhao, X. Zhang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2311063; c) Y. Zhu, Y. Chen, Y. Feng, X. Meng, J. Xia, G. Zhang, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2401694; d) C. Liu, S. Wu, Y. Yang, J. Wei, S. Chen, X. Sun, S. Luo, M. B. Hussain, R. Feng, X. Fu, S. Liu, J. Luo, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2025**, *35*, 2422634.
- [8] X. Liu, T. Wang, Y. Chen, J. Wang, W. Xie, R. Wu, X. Xu, L. Pang, X. Zhang, Y. Lv, G. Wang, Y. Yamauchi, T. Jin, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ. Energy* **2023**, *333*, 122771.
- [9] a) Y. Kuang, F. Yang, L. Feng, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2024**, *14*, 2402043; b) X. Bao, Y. Chen, S. Mao, Y. Wang, Y. Yang, Y. Gong, *Energy Environ. Mater.* **2023**, *6*, e12418.
- [10] a) D. Chen, R. Yu, R. Lu, Z. Pu, P. Wang, J. Zhu, P. Ji, D. Wu, J. Wu, Y. Zhao, Z. Kou, J. Yu, S. Mu, *InfoMat* **2022**, *4*, 12287; b) W. Li, Y. Zhao, Y. Liu, M. Sun, G. I. N. Waterhouse, B. Huang, K. Zhang, T. Zhang, S. Lu, *Angew. Chem.-Int. Edit.* **2020**, *60*, 3290.
- [11] W. Hua, H.-H. Sun, F. Xu, J.-G. Wang, *Rare Met.* **2020**, *39*, 335.

- [12] a) K. Tu, D. Tranca, F. Rodríguez-Hernández, K. Jiang, S. Huang, Q. Zheng, M.-X. Chen, C. Lu, Y. Su, Z. Chen, H. Mao, C. Yang, J. Jiang, H.-W. Liang, X. Zhuang, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2005433; b) Z. Zhao, J. Sun, X. Li, S. Qin, C. Li, Z. Zhang, Z. Li, X. Meng, *Nat. Commun.* **2024**, *15*, 7475.
- [13] a) Y. Kang, Y. Guo, J. Zhao, B. Jiang, J. Guo, Y. Tang, H. Li, V. Malgras, M. A. Amin, H. Nara, Y. Sugahara, Y. Yamauchi, T. Asahi, *Small* **2022**, *18*, 2203411; b) Y. Kang, S. Li, O. Cretu, K. Kimoto, Y. Zhao, L. Zhu, X. Wei, L. Fu, D. Jiang, C. Wan, B. Jiang, T. Asahi, D. Zhang, H. Li, Y. Yamauchi, *Sci. Adv.* **2024**, *10*, ado2442; c) B. Jiang, H. Xue, P. Wang, H. Du, Y. Kang, J. Zhao, S. Wang, W. Zhou, Z. Bian, H. Li, J. Henzie, Y. Yamauchi, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 6079.
- [14] X. Chen, W. Li, N. Song, M. Zhong, S. Yan, J. Xu, W. Zhu, C. Wang, X. Lu, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2022**, *440*, 135851.
- [15] Y. Wang, F. Hao, M. Sun, M.-T. Liu, J. Zhou, Y. Xiong, C. Ye, X. Wang, F. Liu, J. Wang, P. Lu, Y. Ma, J. Yin, H. Chen, Q. Zhang, L. Gu, H. M. Chen, B. Huang, Z. Fan, *Adv. Mater.* **2024**, *36*, 2313548.
- [16] L. Cai, H. Ying, W.-Q. Han, *Mater. Today* **2025**, *85*, 319.
- [17] W. Li, L. Zhang, L. Ma, J. Wang, R. Qi, Y. Pang, M. Xu, C. Zhao, C. Wang, M. Gao, X. Lu, *Nano Lett.* **2025**, *25*, 443.
- [18] a) K. Tu, D. Tranca, F. Rodríguez-Hernández, K. Jiang, S. Huang, Q. Zheng, M.-X. Chen, C. Lu, Y. Su, Z. Chen, H. Mao, C. Yang, J. Jiang, H. Liang, X. Zhuang, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2005433; b) Y. Chang, L. Kong, D. Xu, X. Lu, S. Wang, Y. Li, J. Bao, Y. Wang, Y. Liu, *Angew. Chem.-Int. Edit.* **2025**, *64*, 202414234.
- [19] a) Y. Xie, S. Xu, A. C. Meng, B. Zheng, Z. Chen, J. M. Tour, J. Lin, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2024**, *17*, 8670; b) C. Kim, J. Song, C. Choi, J. P. Ha, W. Lee, Y. T. Nam, D. Lee, G. Kim, I. Gereige, W. Jung, H. Lee, Y. Jung, H. Jeong, H. Jung, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2205270.
- [20] a) Z. Yang, M. Li, S. Chen, S. Yang, F. Peng, J. Liao, Y. Fang, S. Zhang, S. Zhang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2212746; b) Y. Huang, W. Zhou, W. Kong, L. Chen, X. Lu, H. Cai, Y. Yuan, L. Zhao, Y. Jiang, H. Li, L. Wang, L. Wang, H. Wang, J. Zhang, J. Gu, Z. Fan, *Adv. Sci.* **2022**, *9*, 2204949.
- [21] Y. Shi, S. Zhou, J. Liu, X. Zhang, J. Yin, T. Zhan, Y. Yang, G. Li, J. Lai, L. Wang, *Appl. Catal. B-Environ.* **2024**, *341*, 123326.
- [22] W. Guo, K. Zhang, Z. Liang, R. Zou, Q. Xu, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2019**, *48*, 5658.
- [23] Q. Hu, K. Gao, X. Wang, H. Zheng, J. Cao, L. Mi, Q. Huo, H. Yang, J. Liu, C. He, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 3958.
- [24] a) C. Feng, M. Lv, J. Shao, H. Wu, W. Zhou, S. Qi, C. Deng, X. Chai, H. Yang, Q. Hu, C. He, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2305598; b) H. Wang, L. Wang, J. Ren, W. Tian, M. Sun, Z. Yuan, *Nano-Micro Lett.* **2023**, *15*, 155.
- [25] a) M. Srivastava, A. K. Das, P. Khanra, M. E. Uddin, N. H. Kim, J. H. Lee, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2013**, *1*, 9792; b) Y. Wang, Y. Wan, D. Zhang, *Electrochem. Commun.* **2010**, *12*, 187.
- [26] a) L. Chen, L. Jiang, A. Wang, Q. Chen, J. Feng, *Electrochim. Acta* **2016**, *190*, 872; b) Q. Sun, Y. Li, J. Wang, B. Cao, Y. Yu, C. Zhou, G. Zhang, Z. Wang, C. Zhao, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2020**, *8*, 21084.
- [27] Y. Feng, Q. Shi, J. Lin, E. Chai, X. Zhang, Z. Liu, L. Jiao, Y. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2207747.