---
source: Zhai 等 - 2024 - Atomically Confined Ru Sites in Octahedral Co3 O4 for High‐Efficiency Hydrazin.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 81.378s
generated: 2026-01-10T08:12:23.434601Z
---

Check for updates

www.afm-journal.de

# Atomically Confined Ru Sites in Octahedral Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> for High-Efficiency Hydrazine Oxidation

Yanjie Zhai, Chengkai Jin, Qing Xia, Wenkai Han, Jie Wu, Xunhua Zhao,\* and Xiao Zhang\*

Hydrazine-assisted water electrolyzer is a promising energy-efficient alternative to conventional water electrolyzer, offering an appealing path for sustainable hydrogen (H<sub>2</sub>) production with reduced energy consumption. However, such electrolyzer is presently impeded by lacking an efficient catalyst to accelerate the kinetics of pivotal half-reaction, that is, hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR). Herein, a ruthenium (Ru) single-atom on an octahedral cobalt oxide (Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>) substrate (Ru-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>) catalyst, guided by theoretical calculations is developed. Those lattice-confined Ru sites within octahedral structure of spinel Co<sub>2</sub>O<sub>4</sub> effectively lower the energy barrier required for the formation of N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>2</sub>\* intermediate and desorption of H\* species in HzOR. As a result, the Ru-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> catalyst achieves superior HzOR performance with a low potential of -0.024 V versus (vs.) reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) at 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> and remarkable stability for over 200 h at 200 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. Importantly, a modular H<sub>2</sub> production achieves an output of 0.48 kWh electricity per m<sup>3</sup> H<sub>2</sub> by decoupling and pairing the HzOR and hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) half-reaction with a Zinc (Zn) redox reservoir. The work represents a significant advancement in the field, offering substantial flexibility for on-demand H2 production and energy output.

#### 1. Introduction

The increasing crisis of fossil fuel dependency is driving the global pursuit of sustainable and clean energy alternatives. [1] Electrochemical water splitting has emerged as a promising strategy to address this issue by producing high-energy-density hydrogen (H<sub>2</sub>) as a green fuel with zero carbon emissions. [2] However, the anodic oxygen evolution reaction (OER), a critical

Y. Zhai, Q. Xia, W. Han, J. Wu, X. Zhang Department of Mechanical Engineering Research Institute for Advanced Manufacturing The Hong Kong Polytechnic University Hung Hom, Kowloon, Hong Kong SAR 999077, China E-mail: xiao1.zhang@polyu.edu.hk

C. Jin, X. Zhao
Laboratory of Quantum Materials and Devices of Ministry of Education
School of Physics
Southeast University
Nanjing 211189, China
E-mail: xhzhao@seu.edu.cn

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202311063

DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202311063

component of water splitting, suffers from slow reaction kinetics and high energy barriers, necessitating an applied potential exceeding 1.6 V.<sup>[3]</sup> This potential requires substantial energy expenditure thereby significantly restricting the widespread application of water splitting.<sup>[4]</sup>

To address this challenge, alternative anodic reactions involving the electrochemical oxidation of small molecules including methanol,[5] ethanol,[6] urea,[7] and glucose<sup>[8]</sup> have gained attention. These reactions exhibit lower overpotentials compared to the OER. Among these, hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR, N2H4 + 4OH- $\rightarrow$  N<sub>2</sub> + 4H<sub>2</sub>O + 4e<sup>-</sup>)<sup>[9]</sup> stands out as a promising approach with significantly lower energy input. The HzOR offers potential advantages for efficient water splitting due to its low equilibrium potential of -0.33 V versus (vs.) reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE).[10] Moreover, the employment of hydrazine-assisted water splitting offers environmental benefits, converting toxic, carcinogenic hydrazine in

wastewater into nitrogen and water,[11] mitigating pollution, and facilitating green H<sub>2</sub> production.<sup>[12]</sup> Significant progress has been made in both fundamental research and practical applications of the HzOR.<sup>[13]</sup> For instance, Fe-doped CoS<sub>2</sub> nanosheet[14] exhibits a potential of 0.129 V vs. RHE toward 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>. However, large overpotentials compared with the theoretical HzOR potential lead to the energy loss and instability of the catalyst and electrode, thus hampering its practical implementation.<sup>[15]</sup> The HzOR process typically involves the absorption and desorption of various species, including N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>4</sub>\*, N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>3</sub>\*, N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>2</sub>\*, N<sub>2</sub>H\*, and N<sub>2</sub>\* species on reaction surfaces.<sup>[16]</sup> The sluggish pace of the rate-determining step, specifically the conversion of  $N_2H_3^{\ *}$  to  $N_2H_2^{\ *}$ , presents a significant hurdle in the progression of HzOR.<sup>[17]</sup> This highlights the need for the rational design and construction of advanced electrocatalysts based on a thorough understanding of the reaction mechanism. [18]

Herein, we present the theoretical design and experimental fabrication of an efficient catalyst, consisting of a ruthenium (Ru) single-atom on an octahedral cobalt oxide ( $Co_3O_4$ ) substrate (Ru- $Co_3O_4$ ). These confined Ru octahedral lattice sites within spinel  $Co_3O_4$  enhance the adsorption of  $N_2H_2^*$  intermediates and desorption of active  $H^*$  species, eventually leading to a lower energy barrier in HzOR. The unique structure of Ru- $Co_3O_4$  catalysts

www.afm-journal.de

1616328, 2024, 13. Downloaded from https://advanced onlinelibrary.wiele.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202311063 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiele.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensers

<span id="page-1-0"></span>Figure 1. Catalyst design for electrocatalytic hydrazine oxidation. a) Exchange current density  $\log(i_0)$  and Gibbs free energy of adsorbed atomic H\* for different metals (depicted through a volcano plot). b) Calculated models for A termination of  $Co_3O_4$  (220) facet and Ru doped  $Co_3O_4$  (Ru- $Co_3O_4$ ), where the surface octahedral  $Co_3^{3+}$  is substituted by Ru atom. c) Projected density of state (PDOS) for the adsorbing sites of  $Co_3^{3+}$  or  $Co_3^{3+}$  and  $Co_3^{3+}$  (Ru- $Co_3^{3+}$ O<sub>4</sub>) with corresponding d band center. d) Electron density difference plots for the  $Co_3^{3+}$  especies adsorbed on  $Co_3^{3+}$  and  $Co_3^{3+}$  and  $Co_3^{3+}$  energy diagram for HzOR on  $Co_3^{3+}$  and  $Co_3^{3+}$  at 298.15K,  $Co_3^{3+}$  (Ru- $Co_3^{3+}$ O<sub>4</sub>) in 1.0 m corresponding small molecule (water, urea, ethanol, glycerol, methanol, and hydrazine) with 1.0 m KOH electrolytes.

greatly optimizes the hydrazine-assisted water-splitting performance, demonstrating an impressively low potential of -0.024 V vs. RHE for HzOR at 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, thereby optimizing the overall hydrazine-assisted water splitting performance. Notably, the catalyst demonstrates remarkable stability over 200 h stability at 200 mA cm<sup>-2</sup> in a hydrazine-assisted water electrolyzer (HWE). Furthermore, by equipping Ru-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> catalysts, we achieve a modular H<sub>2</sub> production by decoupling and pairing the HzOR and hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) half-reaction, using a zinc (Zn) redox reservoir, which presents an impressive energy output of 14.4 mW cm<sup>-2</sup> and an output of 0.48 kWh electricity per m<sup>3</sup> H<sub>2</sub> with a rate of 8.2 mL h<sup>-1</sup> H<sub>2</sub> production. Moreover, this innovative design offers at room temperature. The significant advancement in catalyst development and electrolyzer fabrication holds great promise for the practical implementation of HWE, contributing to sustainable and green H2 generation on a larger scale

## 2. Results and Discussion

# 2.1. Catalyst Design for the Electrocatalytic Hydrazine Oxidation Reaction

The sluggish pace of the rate-determining step of HzOR, specifically the conversion of  $N_2H_3^*$  to  $N_2H_2^*$ , poses a substantial challenge to its advancement. As shown in Figure S1 (Supporting Information),  $N_2H_3^*$  can be reduced into  $N_2H_2^*$  through electrocatalytic processes, with the formation of intermediate  $N_2H_2^*$  and desorption of active  $H^*$  species. Thus, the production of active  $H^*$  species is crucial for this rate-determining step mech-

anism. According to the classic scaling relation, the adsorption energy of hydrogen atoms is recognized as a decisive descriptor for H\* species formation.[19] It is paramount to strike an optimal balance between binding energies to ensure the active formation and desorption of H\*, thus fostering the advancement of the HzOR process. To date, noble metals<sup>[20]</sup> such as Ru, Rh, Pd, Ir, and Pt have been found to exhibit moderate adsorption energies for H\* species (Figure 1a), rendering them apt for the formation of H\* intermediates during catalytic reactions. Among these metals, Ru stands out as an ideal choice due to its cost-effectiveness compared to other platinum group metals, [21] which means an appropriate substrate material emerges as a promising approach to accelerate dehydrogenation steps. [10,22] Notably, Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>, [23] with its tetrahedral and octahedral sites within its spinel structure, has been extensively investigated for HzOR due to its accessibility, affordability, and high activity. Moreover, the combination of confined noble metal atoms with Co or its derivatives to obtain hybrid 3d/4d or 3d/5d nanomaterials could manipulate the electronic structure and influence the adsorption behavior of surface species such as N<sub>2</sub>H<sub>2</sub>\*.<sup>[22,24]</sup> Thus, combining the advantages of Ru and Co, Ru-Co derivatives are promising catalyst candidates for HzOR.

Inspired by the calculations, we design a novel catalyst composed of a confined single octahedral Ru lattice within a  ${\rm Co_3O_4}$  substrate (Ru-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>), forming bidentate Co-Ru electrocatalytic sites, facilitating the generation of highly active HzOR intermediates. Induced structural shifts lead to charge redistribution around Co atoms, increasing the  ${\rm Co^{2+}/Co^{3+}}$  ratio, and enhancing the adsorption of  ${\rm N_2H_2}^*$  intermediates. Meanwhile, the impact of composition is largely driven by the disparity in octahedral site

preference energy (OSPE) between Ru<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> and Co<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup>. This divergence results in a more octahedral site preference by Ru, deriving from the substantial energy reduction garnered by the Ru<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> substitution.[\[25\]](#page-10-0) The octahedral Ru lattice supports the formation of hydrogen bonds with the H\* species owing to its appropriate adsorption energy, thus fostering synergistic interactions with the Co lattice, and catalyzing the deprotonation process. Based on our design of Ru-Co3O4, we constructed the model of A termination of Co3O4(220) facet, which is the predominant facet observed in the STEM images of Ru-Co3O4 (Figure [1b;](#page-1-0) Figure S2 (Supporting Information), more details are given in Computational Details Section). Furthermore, the surface Co<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> at the octahedral site is substituted by a Ru atom to simulate the doping of a Ru single atom within Co3O4, i.e., Ru-Co3O4.

To examine the effect of lattice interactions between octahedral Ru and Co on the Co metal center, the projected density of states (PDOS) of Co3O4 and Ru-Co3O4 are depicted. As shown in Figure [1c,](#page-1-0) it clearly demonstrates that the spin *d* orbitals of Co/Co and Co/Ru bidentate sites display a distinct lack of degeneracy. The presence of the octahedral Ru lattice results in electron localization on the Co center (represented as the narrower bandwidth after Ru doping), then the *d* band center upshifts toward the Fermi level (spin-up DOS upshifts from −0.49 to −0.16 eV, spin-down DOS upshifts from −5.19 to −3.88 eV). Predictably, this upshift would lead to the enhancement of the adsorption of HzOR intermediates. The strong interactions between the octahedral Ru lattice and spinel Co3O4 lattice result in a more electron-efficient Co/Ru center, as testified by the electron density difference plots (Figure [1d\)](#page-1-0). Obviously, in contrast with the Co/Co bidentate site, more electrons are accumulated between the N2H2 \* and Co/Ru bidentate site, which means stronger covalent bonding and adsorption. This finding confirms our speculation about Ru doping enhancing the intermediate adsorption from PDOS analysis. To gain deeper insights into the effect of Ru-Co3O4 catalysts during HzOR, DFT+U calculations based on computational hydrogen electrode model (CHEM)[\[19\]](#page-9-0) are performed to determine the free energy diagram for HzOR on Co3O4 and Ru-Co3O4 (Figure [1e\)](#page-1-0). The DFT calculations revealed a predominant 4-electron reaction pathway to product N2, the change of Gibbs free energy (∆*G*) reflects the thermodynamic of the HzOR pathway. When the HzOR takes place on Co3O4, the formation of N2H2 \* serves as the rate-determining step with ∆*G* of 1.57 eV, while after the doping of Ru single atom, the rate-determining step on Ru-Co3O4 turns into the dissociation step from N2H2 \* to N2H\*, whose ∆*G* significantly decreases to 0.70 eV. Therefore, Ru-Co3O4 presents a more favorable reaction pathway than Co3O4. By comparison, the additive Ru single atom enhances the adsorption of each intermediate, which agrees well with our PDOS prediction, and further supports the catalytic efficiency of the Ru-Co3O4 catalysts. Since the reaction takes place in 1 m KOH electrolyte, the competition adsorptions of OH<sup>−</sup> and the other intermediates are considered (Figure S3, Supporting Information). Our results illustrate the adsorption of OH<sup>−</sup> on both Co3O4 and Ru-Co3O4 surfaces occurs after the other intermediates, such a weak adsorption of OH<sup>−</sup> is not likely to affect the subsequent HzOR reaction pathways in experimental conditions (U = ≈0.0 V, pH 14).

To prove the catalytic performance of Ru-Co3O4 catalysts in HzOR, linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) was used to compare with other alternative anodic reactions in alkaline water electrolysis. The anode potential at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and Tafel slope of the electrolyte with N2H4 are much lower than that with glycerol, ethanol, urea, and methanol (Figure [1f;](#page-1-0) Figure S4, Supporting Information).

# **2.2. Preparation and Characterization of Ru-Co3O4 Catalysts**

Based on our thermotical prediction, we designed and prepared a 3D structure of Ru-doped Co3O4 catalysts via an in situ replacement and reconstruction process followed by annealing (**Figure 2**[a;](#page-3-0) refer to experimental section). The X-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern of the as-synthesized catalyst shows the typical Co3O4 peaks without obvious metallic Ru peaks, suggesting the absence of Ru particle agglomeration in the Ru-Co3O4 (Figure [2b\)](#page-3-0). Subsequently, the Ru-Co3O4 morphology was investigated through field emission scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM). As shown in Figure S5 (Supporting Information), Ru-Co3O4 nanomaterials display uniform nanosheets with diameters around 2 μm, growing on the Ni foam substrate. This morphology is the same as the Co3O4 (Figure S6, Supporting Information), indicating that Ru doping does not significantly modify the original structure. We also noted that some micropores are created in the 2D nanosheet of Ru-Co3O4, this configuration can potentially enhance the exposure of active sites on the surface to achieve high activity for the HzOR (Figure [2c\)](#page-3-0). The N2 adsorption–desorption isotherms reveal that Ru-Co3O4 has a surface area of 62.43 m<sup>2</sup> g<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> with an average pore size of 13.33 nm (Figure S7, Supporting Information). The substantial porosity in the Ru-Co3O4 could maximize the exposure of active sites and enhance mass transport, thereby improving the electrocatalytic performance. In addition, selected area electron diffraction (SAED) confirms the (220) and (202) planes of spinel Co3O4. Notably, no signal associated with Ru metal or Ru-based oxides is discerned, further confirming that Ru-based nanoparticles did not form.

To further investigate the structure of the Ru-Co3O4, we employed transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and aberrationcorrected high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (AC HAADF-STEM). The interplanar spacing of Ru-Co3O4 is 0.28 nm (Figure [2d;](#page-3-0) Figure S8, Supporting Information), aligning with the (220) plane of spinel Co3O4, and no clusters related to Ru can be found. The high-magnification image displays some brighter dots within the Co3O4 lattice, which can be ascribed as the monodispersed Ru single atoms due to their higher atomic number and relatively larger atomic radius (highlighted in yellow circles in Figures [2e–g;](#page-3-0) Figure S9, Supporting Information). This suggests that Ru atoms may have replaced Co atoms during the ion exchange process. In addition, distinct atomic intensities shown in Figure [2h](#page-3-0) along the dashed rectangles also confirm this result. Energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) for elemental mapping (Figure [2i;](#page-3-0) Figures S10–S12, Supporting Information) of a selected area reveals evenly dispersed Ru atoms, and Co, O, Ru elements are uniformly distributed throughout the entire Ru-Co3O4 substrate, without obvious Ru aggregation. Following this, the inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) analysis was employed to confirm the Ru contents in Ru-Co3O4. The result reveals that ≈3.1 wt.% of Ru atoms substituted Co atoms in the Ru-Co3O4 catalyst.

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** Synthesis and characterization of Ru-Co3O4 catalysts. a) Schematic illustration of the synthetic procedures of Ru-Co3O4 catalyst. b) XRD patterns of Ni foam, Co3O4, and Ru-Co3O4 catalysts. c) Transmission electron microscope (TEM) and selected area electron diffraction (SAED) images of Ru-Co3O4 catalysts. d,e,f,g) Aberration-corrected high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (AC HAADF-STEM) images of Ru-Co3O4 catalysts under different magnifications. h) Intensity profiles along the white dotted lines in (g). i) Scanning transmission electron microscopyenergy disperse spectroscopy (STEM-EDS) mappings of Ru-Co3O4 catalysts.

The Ru doping effect on the crystal structure of the catalyst was then subsequently studied by using Raman spectroscopy. As shown in **Figure 3**[a,](#page-4-0) with the Ru doping, all the Raman peaks (Eg, F2g, and A1g) are red-shifted compared with the Co3O4 control samples. This redshift, typically associated with a decrease in the frequency of phonons interacting with the incident photon, suggests an expansion of the lattice within the spinel structure.[\[26\]](#page-10-0) Furthermore, the A1g peaks of Ru-Co3O4 are much broader after doping, indicating distortion on the Co─O bond in the CoO6-octahedra.[\[27\]](#page-10-0) Based on these observations, we assume that the smaller Co atoms are substituted by the larger Ru atoms within the octahedral sites of the Co3O4 structure.[\[28\]](#page-10-0) To further confirm Ru atom doped sites, the X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) spectra for Ru-Co3O4 were carried out (Figure [3b;](#page-4-0) Figures S13–S15, Supporting Information). The binding energy of Co 2p3/2 for Ru-Co3O4 is negatively shifted (≈0.26 eV)

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 3.** Fine structural characterizations of Ru-Co3O4 catalysts. a) Raman spectra of Co 2p for Ni foam, Co3O4, and Ru-Co3O4 catalysts. b) Highresolution X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) spectra of Co 2p for Co3O4 and Ru-Co3O4 catalysts. c) X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) spectra at the Co K-edge of CoO, Co3O4, and Ru-Co3O4 catalysts, with an inset of the right panel in c showing changes in the adsorption edge. d) Chemical valence of Co atom in CoO, Co3O4, and Ru-Co3O4. e) XANES and f) extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra at the Ru K-edge of Ru, RuO2, and Ru-Co3O4 catalysts. g) Wavelet transform (WT) of k3-weighted Co K-edge of CoO, Co3O4, and Ru-Co3O4 catalysts. a.u., arbitrary units; FT, Fourier transform; k, wave vector.

compared with that of Co3O4, possibly suggesting that there is a slight decrease of Co3<sup>+</sup> proportion in Ru-Co3O4 catalysts compared to spinel Co3O4 catalysts (see the X-ray absorption nearedge spectroscopy (XANES) spectra below for additional information). In high-resolution O 1s XPS spectra, the M─O bond in Ru-Co3O4 slightly negatively shifts and shows a stronger absorbed O peak as compared with Co3O4 catalysts. The existence of Ru was further confirmed through the detection of a Ru 3d XPS signal, which exhibits a partial overlap with the C 1s signal (Figure S15, Supporting Information). The deconvoluted spectrum presents two distinctive doublets, providing clear evidence of the coexistence of the primary valence state of Ru<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> and Ru0. [\[29\]](#page-10-0)

We then employed the XANES and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) spectra to investigate the local structure of spinel Co3O4 after Ru doping. As shown in Figure 3c**,** the normalized XANES spectrum of Co K-edge in Ru-Co3O4 indicates that the absorption edge energy falls between that of CoO and Co3O4. The inset of Figure 3c shows a slight decrease in the adsorption edge (μ = 0.55) energy and white line peak intensity of Ru-Co3O4 compared to Co3O4, while it increases compared to CoO. This suggests a lower average valence state of Co in Ru-Co3O4, with an average value of ≈2.5 (Figure 3d). This is attributed to Ru doping at trivalent octahedral sites rather than the divalent tetrahedral sites of spinel Co3O4. The magnified region of the XANES spectrum shows a higher intensity of the pre-edge peak in Ru-Co3O4, indicating an enhanced 1s → 3d transition peak change in Ru-Co3O4. This signifies that the Co in Ru-Co3O4 is in a less centrosymmetric coordination environment compared to CoO and Co3O4, illustrating a

1616392, 2024, 13. Downadaed from https://advanced.onineliblarry.wilej.co.ordoi/0.1002/atmf.202311063 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Library of [07/01/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Library (or [07/01/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Library (or [07/01/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Library (or [07/01/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Library (or [07/01/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library (or [07/01/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library (or [07/01/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library (or [07/01/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library (or [07/01/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library (or [07/01/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library (or [07/01/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wilej.com/ter

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 4.** Electrocatalytic HzOR performance of Ru-Co $_3$ O $_4$  catalysts. a) LSV curves (100% iR-correction) of Ni, Co $_3$ O $_4$ , and Ru-Co $_3$ O $_4$  catalysts in 1.0 M KOH + 1.0 M N $_2$ H $_4$  electrolytes. b) Comparison of anode potentials of 20 and 50 mV and Tafel slope of Ni, Co $_3$ O $_4$ , and Ru-Co $_3$ O $_4$  catalysts in 1.0 M KOH + 1.0 M N $_2$ H $_4$  electrolytes. c) LSV curves of Ru-Co $_3$ O $_4$  catalysts in 1.0 M KOH electrolytes with different N $_2$ H $_4$  concentrations. d) The mass activity comparison of different reported catalysts toward HzOR. e) The stability of current densities for Ni, Co $_3$ O $_4$ , and Ru-Co $_3$ O $_4$  catalysts under different scan rates at the anode potentials of 5 and 10 mV. f) In situ Bode phase plots of the electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) on Ru-Co $_3$ O $_4$  in 1.0 M KOH + 1.0 M N $_2$ H $_4$  electrolytes. g) The chronoamperometric test of Ru-Co $_3$ O $_4$  catalysts for N $_2$ H $_4$  oxidation at a potential of 0.085 V vs. RHE. The inserted figure shows the polarization curves before and after 1000, 5000, and 10 000 cycles from 0–0.3 V vs. RHE with a scan rate of 100 mV s<sup>-1</sup>.

distorted Co—O lattice induced by Ru incorporation. [23a,28] The structural disorder was further confirmed by the decreased peak intensities in the Fourier transform (FT)-EXAFS curves (Figure S16, Supporting Information). The wavelet transform (WT) of k³-weighted Co K-edge EXAFS spectra reveals that the length of Co—O bonding in Ru-Co₃O₄ was intermediate between CoO and Co₃O₄ (Figure 3g). XANES and EXAFS analysis of the Ru element (Figures 3e,f; Figure S17, Supporting Information) suggest that Ru—O bonding is formed in Ru-Co₃O₄ rather than Ru—Ru bonding in Ru cluster (Figure S18, Supporting Information). Based on the experimental results and the density functional theory (DFT) calculations in Figure 1, it is confirmed that the Ru species act as single-atom dopants embedded in the octahedral sites of Co₃O₄, instigating a lattice distortion characterized by an increased substitution and exposure of Ru<sub>Oh</sub> <sup>3+</sup> with Co<sub>Oh</sub> <sup>3+</sup> sites. [28]

# 2.3. Electrocatalytic Performance of $Ru-Co_3O_4$ Catalysts Toward HzOR

To verify our hypothesis on catalyst design for HzOR and demonstrate the uniqueness of our catalysts in the formation of the intermediate  $\rm N_2H_2^*$  and desorption active  $\rm H^*$  species during HzOR, the electrochemical performance of the Ru-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> catalysts for  $\rm N_2H_4$  oxidation was evaluated. As shown in **Figure 4a**, at a current density (j) of 100 mA cm<sup>-2</sup>, the Ru-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> catalysts achieve a notable HzOR activity with a low potential of -0.024 V vs. RHE, which is 89 and 178 mV lower than the potentials of  $\rm Co_3O_4$  and Ni foam to reach the same j, respectively. Additionally, the Tafel slope of Ru-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> catalysts is only 44 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>, much lower than that of  $\rm Co_3O_4$  (144 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) and Ni foam (148 mV dec<sup>-1</sup>) (Figure 4b; Figure S19, Table S1, Supporting Information). The small Tafel slope indicates a faster HzOR

kinetics of the Ru-Co3O4 catalyst. Moreover, an increase in N2H4 concentration in the electrolyte resulted in a corresponding reduction in the potential necessary to maintain the same j (Figure [4c;](#page-5-0) Figure S20, Supporting Information). These findings indicate a high activity of Ru-Co3O4 catalysts to promote the HzOR. As illustrated in Figure [4d,](#page-5-0) the mass activity of the Ru-Co3O4 catalyst at 0 V vs. RHE is 10.14 A mgRu<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> (Table S1, Supporting Information). We then evaluated the electrochemical performance of the Ru-Co3O4 catalysts prepared under varying synthesis conditions. With the ion exchange time increase, the surface of the 10 min sample shows particle aggregation, which could block the active sites of the catalyst (Figure S21, Supporting Information). In addition, the 300 °C annealed sample shows a spinel Co3O4 peak, indicating improved crystallinity. Consequently, the ion exchange time (5 min) and air-annealing process (300 °C) are chosen to prepare the catalysts for HzOR (Figure S22, Supporting Information).

Subsequently, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) and electrochemical surface area (ECSA) measurements were conducted to study the interfacial charge transfer kinetics and active surface area of Ru-Co3O4 catalysts. The EIS measurement reveals a remarkably lower charge transfer resistance for Ru-Co3O4 compared to Co3O4, indicating enhanced HzOR kinetics by doping Ru[\[30\]](#page-10-0) (Figure S23, Supporting Information). This exceptional conductivity can be attributed to an intensified electron movement from spinel O towards the octahedral Ru lattice. Additionally, the recorded LSV curves across a wide range of scanning rates (10 to 110 mV s<sup>−</sup>1) exhibit nearly overlapping profiles, suggesting efficient charge and mass transfer at the Ru-Co3O4 interface and consequently rapid HzOR kinetics (Figure S24, Supporting Information). Then the ECSA was evaluated by measuring the double-layer capacitance (Cdl) from cyclic voltammograms (CVs) at different scan rates. Ru-Co3O4 catalysts exhibit substantially higher Cdl and ECSA than those of Co3O4 and Ni foam (Figure [4e;](#page-5-0) Figures S25–S27; Table S2, Supporting Information), indicating a larger number of catalytic sites available on the electrode surface for Ru-Co3O4 catalyst. Meanwhile, in 1.0 m KOH + 1.0 m N2H4 electrolytes (Figure [4f\)](#page-5-0), in-situ Bode phase plots illustrate that low frequency (100–101 Hz) peak was typically considered as nonhomogeneous charge distribution, namely without electrooxidation of the catalyst, while a transition peak appears at the potential of −0.1 V vs. RHE for Ru-Co3O4 catalysts, indicating the onset potential of HzOR (the same results with **Figure 4**[a\)](#page-5-0).[\[31\]](#page-10-0)

We then direct our focus on assessing the stability of the catalyst for HzOR. To mitigate the influences of N2H4 depletion, the test was conducted in a HWE. Remarkably, the catalyst displayed remarkable stability, with minimal fluctuations in j above 200 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> after 200 h of continuous operation (Figure [4g\)](#page-5-0). More importantly, the notable catalytic durability was also confirmed by the characterization of the catalysts after the HzOR CA test. The SEM images indicate that the composition of the catalyst is well maintained, without significant signs of aggregation or morphological changes after the reaction (Figure S28, Supporting Information). The XRD and XPS spectra, as presented in Figure S29 (Supporting Information), further demonstrate that both the diffraction peaks and the binding energy positions remain unchanged, signifying the chemical stability of the catalyst.

Meanwhile, a nearly unchanged HzOR electrocatalytic performance was confirmed in subsequent LSV testing after 1000, 5000, and 10 000 cycles (Inset of Figure [4g;](#page-5-0) Figure S30, Supporting Information). The electrocatalytic HER performance of Ru-Co3O4 is further estimated by a series of electrochemical tests (Figures S31–S33, Supporting Information). The low cathode potential, small Tafel slope, and long cyclic stability of our catalysts demonstrate that they can meet the requirements of the HWE.

#### **2.4. Self-Powered Hydrazine-Assisted Water Electrolyzer**

The superior electrochemical performance of Ru-Co3O4 catalysts for HzOR makes it highly promising for potential application in our novel modular H2 production system by integrating a Zn redox reservoir with a HWE (**Figure 5**[a;](#page-7-0) Figure S34, Supporting Information). During the discharging process, a temporal coupling between HER and Zn redox reservoir[\[32\]](#page-10-0) realizes spontaneous H2 generation and energy output. Then during the charging process, HzOR temporally coupling with the Zn redox reservoir, hydrazine fuel cell[\[33\]](#page-10-0) (HzFC) driving the HWE implements the restoration of the Zn redox reservoir. The as-designed device showcases remarkable advantages, including high energy output, no need for purification, and on-demand H2 production.

During the discharging process, the self-powered HWE produces H2 through an electrochemical HER, converting H2O to H2 and stably & continuously discharging for approximately 10 h at 20 mA cm-2 with an energy output of 14.4 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (Figure [5b\)](#page-7-0). Meanwhile, the HWE can output 0.48 kWh of electricity upon production of 1 m<sup>3</sup> H2 at a decent rate of 8.2 mL h<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> from the electrolyzer without any energy input under natural discharge conditions (Figure [5c;](#page-7-0) Figures S35 and S36, Table S3, Supporting Information). Then the HzFC employing Ru-Co3O4 catalysts for HzOR demonstrate a peak power density of 23 mW cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at 0.5 V, sufficient to power the HWE during the charging process (Figure S37, Supporting Information).

The self-powered HWE stably discharges at ≈0.35 V at 0.4 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and displays excellent cyclic stability (Figure [5d\)](#page-7-0), with durability for 600 cycles (equivalent to 200 h) at 20 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> with minimal voltage changes. This surpasses Ni foam-driven HWE, which maintains stability for fewer than 50 cycles at 5 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. Then, the rate stability of Ru-Co3O4 catalysts at different current densities from 0.4 to 20 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> in the selfpowered HWE was further proved by the high-capacity retention ratio (Figure S38, Supporting Information).

The HER half-reaction electrolyzers are coupled with various anodic reactions, which typically consume substantial electricity (e.g., −0.5 ≈4.6 kWh m<sup>−</sup><sup>3</sup> H2; Figure [5f\)](#page-7-0).[\[34\]](#page-10-0) Yet by employing our self-powered HWE, low-cost H2 and electricity generation can be achieved by utilizing hazardous sewage. A preliminary technoeconomic analysis (TEA) indicates a potential reduction of H2 cost by 27.4% by utilizing Zn, alkaline wastes, and hydrazine sewage (Figure [5e;](#page-7-0) Table S4, Supporting Information). This ratio of electricity cost takes up 63.8% of total equipment AWE cost powered by renewables, assuming a base renewable electricity cost of \$0.03 kWh<sup>−</sup>1. The plant-gate levelized cost per ton of H2 produced by the HWE is negatively correlated with the electricity price, but it primarily depends on the fixed asset cost. The exceptional flexibility of this technology for on-demand H2 and electricity generation distinguishes it from water electrolyzers, which require consistent and high electricity costs.

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 5.** A schematic diagram of a self-powered hydrazine-assisted water electrolyzer employing Ru-Co3O4 catalysts. a) Schematic illustration of the discharge/charge processes for the HWE. b) Fully discharge curves of HWE. c) The theoretical and experimental measurements of H2 volume for HER. d) Hydrazine splitting cycle and durability testing of HWE. e) TEA analysis of plant-gate levelized cost for various systems. f) Comparison of the HWE with various water electrolyzers coupling anodic reactions (the oxidation reaction of furfural, hydroxymethyl furfural, benzyl alcohol, methanol, urea, glucose, and sulfur, respectively signify FOR, HMFOR, BOR, MOR, UOR, GOR, and SOR) and the HER.

# **3. Conclusion**

In summary, we have developed an efficient catalyst, Ru-Co3O4, featuring confined Ru single atoms within the octahedral lattice of Co3O4 for HzOR. Those confined Ru octahedral lattice sites within spinel Co3O4 effectively reduce the energy barrier required for N2H2 \* intermediate formation and H\* species desorption in HzOR. The Ru-Co3O4 catalyst demonstrates superior performance with a low potential of −0.024 V vs. RHE at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> and remarkable stability for over 200 h at 200 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. Notably, our designed system for modular H2 production, which innovatively decouples and pairs the HzOR and HER half-reactions with a Zn redox reservoir, results in an output of 0.48 kWh electricity per m<sup>3</sup> H2. This advancement offers significant flexibility for on-demand H2 production and energy output. Our work suggests the possible development of scalable and sustainable catalysts for future HWE, providing valuable insights into efficient HWE systems for sustainable H2 generation.

# **4. Experimental Section**

*Chemicals*: Ruthenium chloride hydrate (RuCl3·xH2O), hydrazine solution (45 wt.% in water), hydrochloric acid (HCl), Cobalt (II) nitrate hexahydrate (Co(NO3)2·6H2O) and commercial Pt/C (20%) were purchased from Sigma–Aldrich. Carbon paper (Freudenberg H27) and anion exchange membrane (AEM) (FAS-50) were purchased from the fuel cell store. Potassium hydroxide (KOH, 95%), Nafion (5 wt.% in a mixture of lower aliphatic alcohols and water, contains 45% water), Zinc acetate

ADVANCED FUNCTIONAL MATERIALS 16163028, 2024. 13, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202311063 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07.01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms

-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Lic

 $(Zn(CH_3COO)_{2,}$  99.99%), Zn foam (1.0 mm thickness), and Nickel foam (1.6 mm thickness) were obtained from Macklin.

Synthesis of Ru-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> Catalysts: In a typical procedure, the nickel foams in the rectangle shape were first cleaned in ethanol and 1.0 m HCl for 30 min. Then the cobaltous hydroxide (Co(OH)<sub>2</sub>) was prepared by electrodeposition in 0.1 m aqueous solution of cobalt nitrate hexahydrate at -1.0 V versus Ag/AgCl for 900 s. The as-prepared Co(OH)<sub>2</sub> precursors were dissolved in 0.5 m RuCl<sub>3</sub>·xH<sub>2</sub>O for  $\approx$ 2, 5, and 30 min. Then the precursors were annealed in air at 300 °C for 4 h with a 5 °C heating rate. The single-atom Ru-doped Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (Ru-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub>) catalyst was synthesized. Then, the reference samples were also prepared at the condition of ion exchange time for 2 min and the annealing temperature at 200 and 400 °C.

Control samples of  $\text{Co}_3\text{O}_4$  loading on Ni foam without Ru doping  $\text{Co}_3\text{O}_4$  were prepared using a similar procedure except for the introduction of Ru sources. Considering the sample loss, the loading of the catalyst can be calculated as 1 mg cm<sup>-2</sup>. The  $\text{Co}_3\text{O}_4$  and Ni foam were characterized for comparative analysis.

Electrochemical Measurements: All measurements for hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR) and hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) were conducted on a BioLogic VSP-300 electrochemical workstation at room temperature. The electrochemical tests were carried out in a threeelectrode cell system with Platinum foil as the counter and Hg/HgO as reference electrodes. All potentials measured were calibrated to the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) by the following equation:  $E_{RHE} = E_{Hg/HgO} + 0.0591^* pH + 0.098$ . The electrochemical impedance spectroscopy measurements were conducted within a frequency range of 100 000 to 0.01 Hz, using a 6 mV amplitude. The electrochemical surface area (ECSA) can be calculated using the formula: ECSA =  $C_{dl}/C_s$ . The electrochemical double layer capacitances  $(C_{dl})$  of different samples are determined through cyclic voltammetry (CV) in a potential region where no faradaic process occurs, and the specific capacitance ( $C_s$ ) is 40  $\mu F$  cm<sup>-2</sup> according to the previous literature<sup>[35]</sup> representing a flat Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> surface. Anodic reactions were studied using linear sweep voltammetry at a scan rate of 5 mV s<sup>-1</sup>. For the flow-cell test, this was used Ru-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> loaded Ni foam electrodes as the cathode and anode for HzOR and HER. In the experimental setup, two electrodes were positioned on opposite sides of two polytetrafluoroethylene sheets, each measuring 0.2 cm in thickness. These sheets had channels that were 2 cm wide and 0.5 cm long, with the catalyst layer in contact with the flowing liquid electrolyte. To separate the chambers, an AEM was sandwiched between two polytetrafluoroethylene sheets. The geometric surface area of the catalyst used in the experiment was 1 cm<sup>2</sup>. The flow rate of the electrolyte, which was a 1.0 M KOH solution with a pH of 13.8, was maintained at 1.84 mL min<sup>-1</sup> in both chambers using a syringe pump. It is important to note that impedance (IR) compensation was not carried out unless specifically mentioned or stated.

Hydrazine-Assisted Water Electrolyzer (HWE): A membrane electrode assembly process to conduct the HWE was utilized. This process involved placing an AEM between two  $\text{Ru-Co}_3\text{O}_4$  electrocatalyst electrodes for both the anode and cathode, each with a size of 1 cm² along with the polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) gaskets. To circulate the anolyte (a solution of 1.0 m KOH and 1.0 m hydrazine) and catholyte (a solution of 1.0 m KOH), electric pumps were employed at a flow rate of  $\approx$ 120 mL min $^{-1}$ .

In the novel HWE, the anode comprises Zn foil with  $0.02~\text{M}~\text{Zn}(\text{CH}_3\text{COO})_2 + 1.0~\text{M}~\text{KOH}$  as the electrolyte, while the  $\text{Ru-Co}_3\text{O}_4$  cathode is immersed in 1.0 M KOH and 1.0 M hydrazine electrolyte to drive the HER. The membrane electrode assembly process was employed with AEM sandwiched between two electrodes with the stice of  $0.5\times2~\text{cm}^2$  along with the PTFE gaskets and the Ru-Co $_3\text{O}_4$  catalyst for both anode and cathode. A peristaltic pump was assigned to the anode of the HWE to circulate the anode electrolytes with  $N_2\text{H}_4$ . The various experimental tests reported in this HWE were performed and recorded using a testing system (Neware Technology Limited).

In the hydrazine fuel cell, the anode comprises Pt/C with  $O_2$  at a flow rate of 50 sccm, while the Ru- $Co_3O_4$  cathode is immersed in a solution of 1.0 m KOH and 1.0 m hydrazine electrolyte to drive the HzOR. The membrane electrode assembly process was employed with AEM sandwiched between two electrodes with the size of 0.5  $\times$  2 cm<sup>2</sup> along with the PTFE gaskets.

Characterizations: The morphology of Ru-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> was observed using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) (Zeiss Sigma 300, Germany), while the element analysis was conducted by energy-dispersive X-ray (EDX). Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and high-angle annular dark field scanning transmission electron microscopy were carried out by IEM-2100F (JEOL, Japan). Aberration-corrected high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (AC HADDF-STEM) images were performed on JEM-ARM200F. The phase analysis of Ru-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> was conducted by X-ray diffraction (XRD) (D/max 2500 PC). The valence states of elements were analyzed by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) with a spectrometer with Mg/Al K $\alpha$  radiation (Thermo VG Scientific, USA). The specific surface area and pore size characteristics were analyzed by a fully automated specific surface analyzer (BET, Micromeritics ASAP 2020, USA) through Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) method. The exact metal content in the Ru-Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> was conducted by an inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) via Agilent 7700. Extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) tests were conducted at the Sector TPS 44A beamline at the Taiwan photon source.

Computational Methods: Based on plane-wave basis sets, the Vienna ab initio Simulation Package (VASP) was used for all the periodic DFT calculations.[36] The Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof (PBE) functional of generalized gradient approximation (GGA) was employed.[37] Electron-ion interactions were described by the projector augmented wave (PAW) potentials,[38] with a cutoff energy of 400 eV. To consider the van der Waals interactions, D3 dispersion correction by Grimme et al was employed.<sup>[39]</sup> To describe the effects of Co 3d and Ru 3d electrons, the DFT+U method<sup>[40]</sup> was applied to correct the Coulomb and exchange interactions by setting U = 3.42 and 2.42 eV for Co and Ru, which are consistent with the previous report. [41] During the optimization,  $9 \times 9 \times 9$  and  $3 \times 3 \times 1$ k-points mesh generated by the Monkhorst-Pack algorithm were used to sample the Brillouin zone for bulk and slab models. Gamma point was used for the molecules in the gas phase, and a 15 Å  $\times$  15 Å  $\times$  15 Å cubic lattice was built to prevent the interaction of adjacent cells. The convergence criteria were set to  $1.0 \times 10^{-5}$  eV and 0.03 eV Å $^{-1}$  for SCF energies and atomic forces, respectively.

To maintain the antiferromagnetic properties of  $\text{Co}_3\text{O}_4$  bulk, spin polarization was performed during the optimization, where the magnetic moments were 2.6  $\mu_B$  for  $\text{Co}^{2+}$  and 0  $\mu_B$  for  $\text{Co}^{3+}$  within the antiferromagnetic state.

To correct Gibbs free energy (G), frequencies were further determined by solving the Hessian matrix.

For gaseous species, the Gibbs free energy of gas,  $G_{\rm gas}$  ( ${\it T,p}$ ), was calculated by,

$$G_{\text{gas}}(T, p) = E_{\text{VASP}} + ZPE + \int C_{\text{p}} dT - TS$$
 (1)

where the  $E_{VASP}$ , ZPE,  $\int C_p dT$ , and TS are calculated as electronic energy, zero-point energies, enthalpic and entropic contributions. Note that translational, rotational, and vibrational contributions are taken into consideration for gaseous species.

For adsorbed species, the pV term could be negligible so that the  $\int C_p dT$  term turns into the  $\int C_p dT$  term. Thereby, the Helmholtz free energy,  $F_{ads}(T)$ , is served as an approximate for the Gibbs free energy of adsorbed species,  $G_{ads}(T)$ , calculated by,

$$F_{\rm ads}(T) \approx G_{\rm ads}(T) = E_{\rm VASP} + ZPE + \int C_{\rm v} dT - TS$$
 (2)

Note that only vibrational contribution is taken into consideration for adsorbed species.

Herein, the traditional path of HzOR was proceeded. The overall reaction is  $N_2H_4$  (I)  $\rightarrow N_2(g)+4H^++4e^-$ , in which each elementary step is defined as.

$$N_2H_4(I) + ^* \rightarrow N_2H_4^*$$
 (3)

$$N_2H_4^* \to N_2H_3^* + H^+ + e^-$$
 (4)

<span id="page-9-0"></span>
$$N_2H_2^* \to N_2H^* + H^+ + e^-$$
 (6)

$$N_2H^* \to N_2^* + H^+ + e^-$$
 (7)

$$N_2^* \to N_2(g) + ^*$$
 (8)

Based on the computational hydrogen electrode model (CHEM) proposed by Nørskov et al., [19] the Gibbs free energy diagrams were depicted. Referenced to the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE), the Gibbs free energy change [42] could be calculated as,

$$\Delta G = G_{N_2 H x^*} (T) - G_{N_2 H x + 1^*} (T) + G_{H_2} (T, P) / 2 - |e| U_{SHE}$$
(9)

where the  $G_{\text{N2Hx}^*}(T)$ ,  $G_{\text{N2Hx}+1^*}(T)$ ,  $G_{\text{H2}}(T,P)$ , |e|, and  $U_{\text{SHE}}$  are the Gibbs free energy of  $N_2H_x^*$ ,  $N_2H_{x+1}^*$ , and  $H_2$  species, the number of electrons, electrode potential referred to the RHE.

The *d*-band center was calculated by the following equation,

$$\varepsilon_{d} = \frac{\int_{-\infty}^{\infty} n_{d}(\varepsilon) \, \varepsilon d\varepsilon}{\int_{-\infty}^{\infty} n_{d}(\varepsilon) \, d\varepsilon} \tag{10}$$

where the  $\epsilon$  and  ${\rm n_d}(\epsilon)$  are energy level and corresponding density of state, respectively.

Computational Models: As depicted in Figure S2a (Supporting Information), the conventional nal unit-cell of  $Co_3O_4$  bulk ( $Co_{24}O_{32}$ ) consists of sixteen  $Co^{3+}$  (bule octahedral position) and eight  $Co^{2+}$  (green tetrahedral positions). After the optimization by the DFT+U method, the orthorhombic lattice constants of the  $Co_3O_4$  bulk are a=b=c=8.01 Å.

Agreeing well with the XRD and TEM patterns in the experiment, the Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (220) facet was cleaved to simulate the exposed surface. According to the previous report,  $^{[43]}$  there are two types of termination (A- termination, and B-termination) for the Co<sub>3</sub>O<sub>4</sub> (220) facet, in which the A-termination is more preferred than the B-termination in the condition of 600 K and  $P_{\rm O2}=0.2$  atm. Herein, the A-termination was used to simulate the HzOR. The Co<sup>2+</sup>: Co<sup>3+</sup> = 1:1 is exposed to the A-termination (Figure S2b, Supporting Information). The  $p(1\times1)$  unit cell was built with a 15 Å vacuum layer in the c direction to prevent the interaction between the upper and bottom surfaces. There are six atomic layers within the cleaved slab, and the bottom three layers are frozen to simulate the bulk structure during optimization.

The atoms of the upper two layers are shown in Figure S2c (Supporting Information), two kinds of Co atoms are denoted as  $^{\rm surf}{\rm Co}_{3c}$  and  $^{\rm surf}{\rm Co}_{4c}$ , corresponding to tri-coordinated Co²+ atoms and tetra-coordinated Co³+ atoms, respectively. Our tests show that for Ru substitution,  $^{\rm surf}{\rm Co}_{4c}$  (Co³+) atom in octahedral positions of A-termination is more preferred than  $^{\rm surf}{\rm Co}_{3c}$  (Co²+) atom (Figures S2c,d).

# **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

# **Acknowledgements**

 $X.\ Z.\ acknowledges$  the support from the Hong Kong Polytechnic University (BDC2, CD4D, and WZ4Q).

#### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Author Contributions**

Y.Z., C.J., and Q.X. contributed equally to this work. Conceptualization, Y.Z., C.J., Q.X., and X.Z. (Xiao Zhang); Methodology, Y.Z., C.J., Q.X., and X. Z (Xunhua Zhao); Writing, Y.Z., C.J., Q.X.; Revision, J.W., and W.H.; Supervision, X. Z. (Xiao Zhang) All authors discussed the results and comments on the manuscript.

# **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

## Keywords

hydrazine oxidation reaction, hydrazine-assisted water electrolyzer, lattice confinement, octahedral sites, Zn redox reservoir

Received: September 13, 2023 Revised: November 18, 2023 Published online: December 14, 2023

- J. D. Sachs, G. Schmidt-Traub, M. Mazzucato, D. Messner, N. Nakicenovic, J. Rockström, *Nat. Sustain.* 2019, 2, 805.
- [2] H. P. Xie, Z. Y. Zhao, T. Liu, Y. F. Wu, C. Lan, W. C. Jiang, L. Y. Zhu, Y. P. Wang, D. S. Yang, Z. P. Shao, *Nature* 2022, 612, 4633096.
- [3] N. K. Oh, J. Seo, S. Lee, H. J. Kim, U. Kim, J. Lee, Y.-K. Han, H. Park, Nat. Commun. 2021, 12, 4606.
- [4] H. Dotan, A. Landman, S. W. Sheehan, K. D. Malviya, G. E. Shter, D. A. Grave, Z. Arzi, N. Yehudai, M. Halabi, N. Gal, N. Hadari, C. Cohen, A. Rothschild, G. S. Grader, *Nat. Energy* 2019, 4, 786.
- [5] S. Li, R. Ma, J. Hu, Z. Li, L. Liu, X. Wang, Y. Lu, G. E. Sterbinsky, S. Liu, L. Zheng, J. Liu, D. Liu, J. Wang, Nat. Commun. 2022, 13, 2916.
- [6] C. Liu, Y. Shen, J. F. Zhang, G. Li, X. R. Zheng, X. P. Han, L. Y. Xu, S. Z. Zhu, Y. N. Chen, Y. D. Deng, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2022, 12, 2103505.
- [7] M. Cai, Q. Zhu, X. Wang, Z. Shao, L. Yao, H. Zeng, X. Wu, J. Chen, K. Huang, S. Feng, Adv. Mater. 2023, 35, 2209338.
- [8] W.-J. Liu, Z. Xu, D. Zhao, X.-Q. Pan, H.-C. Li, X. Hu, Z.-Y. Fan, W.-K. Wang, G.-H. Zhao, S. Jin, G. W. Huber, H.-Q. Yu, Nat. Commun. 2020, 11. 265.
- [9] G. Feng, L. An, B. Li, Y. Zuo, J. Song, F. Ning, N. Jiang, X. Cheng, Y. Zhang, D. Xia, Nat. Commun. 2019, 10, 4514.
- [10] Y. Liu, J. Zhang, Y. Li, Q. Qian, Z. Li, Y. Zhu, G. Zhang, Nat. Commun. 2020, 11, 1853.
- [11] C. Tang, R. Zhang, W. Lu, Z. Wang, D. Liu, S. Hao, G. Du, A. M. Asiri, X. Sun, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2017, 56, 842.
- [12] X. Fu, D. Cheng, C. Wan, S. Kumari, H. Zhang, A. Zhang, H. Huyan, J. Zhou, H. Ren, S. Wang, Z. Zhao, X. Zhao, J. Chen, X. Pan, P. Sautet, Y. Huang, X. Duan, Adv. Mater. 2023, 35, 2301533.
- [13] L. B. Zhu, J. Huang, G. Meng, T. T. Wu, C. Chen, H. Tian, Y. F. Chen, F. T. Kong, Z. W. Chang, X. Z. Cui, J. L. Shi, *Nat. Commun.* 2023, 14, 1997
- [14] X. Liu, J. He, S. Zhao, Y. Liu, Z. Zhao, J. Luo, G. Hu, X. Sun, Y. Ding, Nat. Commun. 2018, 9, 4365.
- [15] Y. Zhu, J. Zhang, Q. Qian, Y. Li, Z. Li, Y. Liu, C. Xiao, G. Zhang, Y. Xie, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2022, 61, e202113082.
- [16] S. Zhou, Y. Zhao, R. Shi, Y. Wang, A. Ashok, F. Héraly, T. Zhang, J. Yuan, Adv. Mater. 2022, 34, 2204388.
- [17] F. Zhao, S. Nie, L. Wu, Q. Yuan, X. Wang, Adv. Mater. 2023, 35, 2303672.
- [18] Q. Yu, X. Liu, G. Liu, X. Wang, Z. Li, B. Li, Z. Wu, L. Wang, Adv. Funct. Mater. 2022, 32, 2205767.

- <span id="page-10-0"></span>[19] J. K. Nørskov, T. Bligaard, A. Logadottir, J. R. Kitchin, J. G. Chen, S. Pandelov, U. Stimming, *J. Electrochem. Soc.* **2005**, *152*, J23.
- [20] a) Z. W. Seh, J. Kibsgaard, C. F. Dickens, I. Chorkendorff, J. K. Nørskov, T. F. Jaramillo, *Science* **2017**, *355*, eaad4998; b) T. F. Jaramillo, K. P. Jørgensen, J. Bonde, J. H. Nielsen, S. Horch, I. Chorkendorff, *Science* **2007**, *317*, 100; c) H. E. Hoster, *Mat. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc.* **2012**, *820*, 1388; d) L. Zhang, J. M. T. A. Fischer, Y. Jia, X. Yan, W. Xu, X. Wang, J. Chen, D. Yang, H. Liu, L. Zhuang, M. Hankel, D. J. Searles, K. Huang, S. Feng, C. L. Brown, X. Yao, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2018**, *140*, 10757; e) Z. Wu, P. Yang, Q. Li, W. Xiao, Z. Li, G. Xu, F. Liu, B. Jia, T. Ma, S. Feng, L. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *135*, e202300406.
- [21] a) L. Cao, Q. Luo, J. Chen, L. Wang, Y. Lin, H. Wang, X. Liu, X. Shen, W. Zhang, W. Liu, Z. Qi, Z. Jiang, J. Yang, T. Yao, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 4849; b) Y. Zhao, X. Zhang, Y. Gao, Z. Chen, Z. Li, T. Ma, Z. Wu, L. Wang, S. Feng, *Small* **2022**, *18*, 2105168.
- [22] Y. Zhu, J. Wang, T. Koketsu, M. Kroschel, J.-M. Chen, S.-Y. Hsu, G. Henkelman, Z. Hu, P. Strasser, J. Ma, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 7754.
- [23] a) L. Chong, G. Gao, J. Wen, H. Li, H. Xu, Z. Green, J. D. Sugar, A. J. Kropf, W. Xu, X.-M. Lin, H. Xu, L.-W. Wang, D.-J. Liu, *Science* **2023**, *380*, 609; b) Z. Shao, X. Gao, Q. Zhu, W. Zhao, X. Wu, K. Huang, S. Feng, *Chem. Commun.* **2022**, *58*, 10408; c) X. Wang, Z. Pan, X. Chu, K. Huang, Y. Cong, R. Cao, R. Sarangi, L. Li, G. Li, S. Feng, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 11720.
- [24] Y. Wang, J. Mao, X. Meng, L. Yu, D. Deng, X. Bao, *Chem. Rev.* **2019**, *119*, 1806.
- [25] a) J. M. Brenan, C. F. Finnigan, W. F. Mcdonough, V. Homolova, *Chem. Geol.* **2012**, *302*, 16; b) J. Al Boukhari, H. Basma, M. Khsheish, R. Sayed Hassan, R. Awad, *J. Mater. Sci-Mater El* **2022**, *33*, 14281; c) Y. Sun, H. Liao, J. Wang, B. Chen, S. Sun, S. J. H. Ong, S. Xi, C. Diao, Y. Du, J.-O. Wang, M. B. H. Breese, S. Li, H. Zhang, Z. J. Xu, *Nat. Catal.* **2020**, *3*, 554.
- [26] Y. S. Rammah, M. S. Al-Buriahi, A. S. Abouhaswa, *Physica. B.* **2020**, *576*, 411717.
- [27] M. Yu, C. Weidenthaler, Y. Wang, E. Budiyanto, E. Onur Sahin, M. Chen, S. Debeer, O. Rüdiger, H. Tüysüz, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202211543.

- [28] Y. Wang, Y.-Q. Zhu, Z. Xie, S.-M. Xu, M. Xu, Z. Li, L. Ma, R. Ge, H. Zhou, Z. Li, X. Kong, L. Zheng, J. Zhou, H. Duan, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 12432.
- [29] a) H. Tao, C. Choi, L.-X. Ding, Z. Jiang, Z. Han, M. Jia, Q. Fan, Y. Gao, H. Wang, A. W. Robertson, S. Hong, Y. Jung, S. Liu, Z. Sun, *Chem* **2019**, *5*, 204; b) M.-M. Pan, P. Li, Y.-P. Yu, M. Jiang, X. Yang, P. Zhang, J. Nie, J. Hu, X. Yu, L. Xu, *Adv. Healthcare Mater.* **2023**, *12*, 2300821.
- [30] C. Yan, G. Chen, X. Zhou, J. Sun, C. Lv, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2016**, *26*, 1428.
- [31] Y. Qi, Y. Zhang, L. Yang, Y. Zhao, Y. Zhu, H. Jiang, C. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 4602.
- [32] F. Wang, W. Li, R. Wang, T. Guo, H. Sheng, H.-C. Fu, S. S. Stahl, S. Jin, *Joule* **2021**, *5*, 149.
- [33] T. Wang, Q. Wang, Y. Wang, Y. Da, W. Zhou, Y. Shao, D. Li, S. Zhan, J. Yuan, H. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *58*, 13466.
- [34] F. Sun, J. Qin, Z. Wang, M. Yu, X. Wu, X. Sun, J. Qiu, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 4182.
- [35] C. C. L. Mccrory, S. Jung, I. M. Ferrer, S. M. Chatman, J. C. Peters, T. F. Jaramillo, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2015**, *137*, 4347.
- [36] a) G. Kresse, J. Furthmüller, *Phys. Rev. B* **1996**, *54*, 11169; b) G. Kresse, J. Furthmüller, *Comp. Mater. Sci.* **1996**, *6*, 15.
- [37] J. P. Perdew, K. Burke, M. Ernzerhof, *Phys. Rev. Lett.* **1996**, *77*, 3865.
- [38] a) P. E. Blöchl, *Phys. Rev. B* **1994**, *50*, 17953; b) P. E. Blöchl, C. J. Först, J. Schimpl, *B. Mater. Sci.* **2003**, *26*, 33.
- [39] a) S. Grimme, S. Ehrlich, L. Goerigk, *J. Comput. Chem.* **2011**, *32*, 1456; b) S. Grimme, A. Hansen, J. G. Brandenburg, C. Bannwarth, *Chem. Rev.* **2016**, *116*, 5105; c) T. Kerber, M. Sierka, J. Sauer, *J. Comput. Chem.* **2008**, *29*, 2088.
- [40] a) C. Loschen, J. Carrasco, K. M. Neyman, F. Illas, *Phys. Rev. B* **2007**, *75*, 035115; b) S. Fabris, G. Vicario, G. Balducci, S. De Gironcoli, S. Baroni, *J. Phys. Chem. B* **2005**, *109*, 22860.
- [41] L. Gong, X. Wang, T. Zheng, J. Liu, J. Wang, Y.-C. Yang, J. Zhang, X. Han, L. Zhang, Z. Xia, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2021**, *9*, 3555.
- [42] X. Zhao, Z. H. Levell, S. Yu, Y. Liu, *Chem. Rev.* **2022**, *122*, 10675.
- [43] J. Chen, A. Selloni, *Phys. Rev. B* **2012**, *85*, 085306.