---
source: Zhang 等 - 2024 - Efficient Hydrazine Electro‐Oxidation Achieved by Tailored Electron Injection into Fe (III) Sites Ac.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 7.093s
generated: 2026-01-10T08:13:10.360275Z
---

**[www.afm-journal.de](http://www.afm-journal.de)**

# **Efficient Hydrazine Electro-Oxidation Achieved by Tailored Electron Injection into Fe (III) Sites Activating Dehydrogenation**

*Shucong Zhang, Xiaotong Wei, Shuixing Dai, Huanlei Wang, and Minghua Huang\**

**Tailoring the d-orbital electron of Fe (III) in oxyhydroxide is highly expected to realize an efficient hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR) for assisting seawater electrolysis. Although interface engineering can effectively change electron states on Fe sites by charge injection or extraction, most interfaces have a directional electric field for inaccessible regulation. Herein, the combination of iron oxyhydroxide and biphasic nickel phosphide is established to obtain a dual built-in electric field (BEF) with opposite direction, which aims to manipulate the d-orbital electron configuration of Fe (III) sites, thereby optimizing the binding strength and activating of N2H4 intermediates. Both computational and experimental analyses reveal that the moderate Fe**─**\*N2H4 binding strength originating from tailored electron injection plays the key role in accelerating dehydrogenation. Impressively, such a promising promotion endows the catalyst with a remarkable HzOR activity, realizing working potentials of −8 and 44 mV for 10 and 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> in alkaline seawater, respectively, and achieving outstanding long-term stability for over 100 h. H2 production from a hybrid seawater electrolyzer (HSE) requires a dramatically low power consumption of 16.4 Wh L<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> H2 with ≈100% Faraday efficiency. It is believed that the work sheds new inspiration on d-orbital regulation for obtaining advanced HzOR electrocatalysts.**

## **1. Introduction**

Hydrogen, as a clean energy carrier with high energy density, is highly expected to alleviate environmental pollution and energy crisis.[\[1\]](#page-10-0) To date, water electrolysis is recognized as a promising approach to obtain high-purity hydrogen, in spite of the scarce freshwater resources.[\[2\]](#page-10-0) Recently, tremendous efforts have focused on directly electrolyzing inexhaustible seawater for hydrogen production. However, its industrial deployment is hampered by the high energy consumption and notorious chlorine chemistry for anodic reaction.[\[3\]](#page-10-0) The emergence of a hybrid seawater electrolyzer (HSE), using anodic hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR) to couple with cathodic hydrogen evolution

S. Zhang, X. Wei, S. Dai, H. Wang, M. Huang School of Materials Science and Engineering Ocean University of China Qingdao 266100, China

E-mail: [huangminghua@ouc.edu.cn](mailto:huangminghua@ouc.edu.cn)

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202311370>

**DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202311370**

reaction (HER), provides an energy-saving and chloride-free strategy for seawater electrolysis, which could further be driven by external electrical energy suitable for portable devices and outdoor operations.[\[4\]](#page-10-0) However, as the essential half-reaction of HSE, the HzOR usually involves multi-step dehydrogenation processes and typically exhibits large energy barriers for activating adsorbed hydrazine (\*N2H4), thereby suffering from the much higher practical working potentials than theoretical ones.[\[5\]](#page-10-0) On this account, it is imperative and of paramount importance to explore high-efficiency and stable HzOR catalysts.

Previous studies have suggested that the material equipped with high-valence metal sites generally exhibits high intrinsic activity toward HzOR.[\[6\]](#page-10-0) For instance, the oxyhydroxide of earth-abundance transition metal iron involving ferric iron [Fe (III)] active centers proves to be a potential candidate as efficient HzOR catalysts.[\[7\]](#page-10-0) As known, the catalytic behavior of catalysts possessing metal active centers abides by

the Sabatier principle, which states that the binding energy between metal centers and reaction intermediates must be neither too weak nor too strong, thus achieving a superior activity at the top of the volcano curve.[\[8\]](#page-10-0) Meanwhile, the partially occupied d-orbitals of transition metal serving as the hostorbital could determine the binding strength by the d-p orbital hybridization between metal sites and intermediates.[\[5b,9\]](#page-10-0) Specific to Fe oxyhydroxide, however, there are not enough unpaired electrons filling in the Fe d-orbital for hybridization, causing powerless chemisorption and insufficient activation of reactant molecules.[\[8a\]](#page-10-0) Considering the widely-accepted dependence of electronic property on the adsorption energy for reaction intermediates,[\[10\]](#page-10-0) modulating the electronic structure of the Fe d-orbital is conductive to modulating the adsorption affinity, and thus pushing the catalytic activity of Fe (III) centers toward the apex of the volcano is highly anticipated. In addition, electron injection or extraction for the d-orbital of metal sites has been endorsed to be highly effective in developing advanced electrocatalysts with favorable adsorption capacities with varied success in recent studies.[\[11\]](#page-10-0) In this context, controlling the intensity of the built-in electric field (BEF) has been either proposed or demonstrated to be capable of regulating the d-band center

of metal sites in the heterostructure catalysts.[\[12\]](#page-10-0) For example, Zhai and co-authors achieved the regulation of the Pt d-band center by altering the BEF between Pt nanoparticles and cobalt oxides.[\[13\]](#page-10-0) Moreover, heteroatom doping has also been reported to enhance BEF and therefore optimize the electronic structure of metal sites.[\[6b,14\]](#page-10-0) Despite these considerable advances, altering the interfacial composition to adjust the BEF intensity remains a formidable challenge, which may introduce unexpected structural changes such as chemical bond breakage, vacancy formation, and crystallinity transformation, and thus have uncontrollable effects on the charge transport, electric field polarization, and even d-orbitals electron state.[\[15\]](#page-10-0) This will undoubtedly bring about more difficulties in the rational design and regulation of BEF, and simultaneously be detrimental to the cleavage of structure-activity relationship.[\[16\]](#page-10-0) Fortunately, the interplay between field forces involving dual electric fields may provide an infinite possibility for solving this thorny problem. By switching the superposition or cancellation of field forces, the strength of BEF is expected to be manipulated. Therefore, it is envisioned that through ingeniously engineering the interaction of BEFs that can be conveniently used to establish the intrinsic connection between Fe d-orbital electronic structure and the adsorption of principal intermediate involving in HzOR, the dehydrogenation kinetics could be improved for realizing highly efficient catalytic activity.

Herein, we construct an interesting dual-BEF with opposite directions in the FeOOH/Ni12P5/Ni2P tri-phase structure supported on nickel foam (FHNNP/NF). One outward BEF is generated from the FeOOH/Ni12P5 interface, while the other inward BEF occurs at the Ni12P5/Ni2P interface. A series of spectroscopic characterization results uncover that such a dual-BEF effect enables to pump of electrons into the FeOOH phase and thus slightly lowers the valance state of the Fe atom, which realizes the maximized optimization of the surface electronic structure. Consequently, the as-fabricated FHNNP/NF only requires ultralow working potentials of −8 and 44 mV to obtain 10 and 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> current densities in 0.4 M N2H4 + alkaline seawater with outstanding long-term stability for over 100 h, respectively. Furthermore, a hybrid seawater electrolyzer (HSE) unit equipped with FHNNP/NF as anode has been demonstrated to deliver an ultra-low cell voltage of 0.33 V and a dramatically low electricity expense of 16.4 Wh L<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> H2 at 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. Theoretical calculations reveal that the BEF effect enables the moderate electron injection from Ni phosphide into the FeOOH, and thus regulates the Fe d-orbital electronic structure for obtaining appropriate adsorption behavior of reaction intermediates. The electron-tailored Fe sites with an optimal Fe─N binding strength can reduce the energy barrier of the rate-determining step (dehydrogenation of \*NH2NH2→\*NH2NH), thereby boosting the intrinsic HzOR activity. We believe that this work provides a new insight into designing the advanced electric field-enhanced catalysts for hydrazine assisted seawater electrolysis.

#### **2. Results and Discussion**

#### **2.1. Synthesis and Structural Characterizations**

**Figure [1](#page-2-0)**a shows the schematic for the synthesis of FHNNP/NF catalyst. The hybrid Ni12P5/Ni2P nanorod array with a homojunction was first grown on the Ni foam (NNP/NF) via a lowtemperature phosphorization method, where NF acts as both Ni source and substrate, and NaH2PO2 served as the P source to react with NF. Subsequently, the as-obtained NNP/NF was immersed into the Fe(NO3)3 solution for electrodeposition, after which amorphous FeOOH (FH) nanosheets were formed on the hybrid nanorods surface to get a FeOOH/Ni12P5 heterojunction. Therefore, the targeted FHNNP/NF catalyst with tri-phase structure of FeOOH/Ni12P5/Ni2P was successfully fabricated. For comparison, the pure NNP/NF and FeOOH/NF (FH/NF) samples were also prepared (shown in Experimental Section, Supporting Information). The X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns are adopted to study the crystal structure of the as-prepared catalysts (Figure [1b\)](#page-2-0). The characteristic diffraction peaks of pure NNP/NF at 38.4°, 40.8°, 44.6°, 46.9°, 47.3°, and 48.9° can be indexed to the Ni2P (PDF#03-0953) and Ni12P5 (PDF#22-1190), implying the possible co-existence of both Ni2P and Ni12P5 phases. No peaks can be observed except for those corresponding to NF in the XRD pattern of FH/NF, suggesting its amorphous nature (Figure S1, Supporting Information).[\[17\]](#page-10-0) Meanwhile, the XRD pattern of FHNNP/NF is analogous to that of pure NNP/NF, which indicates that the FeOOH grown on the hybrid Ni12P5/Ni2P nanorod also exists in amorphous form. Raman spectra were further collected to obtain more chemical information of these catalysts (Figure S2, Supporting Information). Three peaks at 264.6, 274.2, and 373.1 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> are observed in the Raman spectrum of FHNNP/NF, which can be assigned to the Ni phosphide phase, consistent with the Raman results of NNP/NF. Moreover, two peaks located at 290.5 and 402.1 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> correspond to the FeOOH phase, which can be also clearly observed in the Raman spectrum of FH/NF. Combined with the XRD and Raman results, it can be preliminarily inferred the co-existence of the crystalline Ni12P5 and Ni2P phases, as well as amorphous FeOOH components in the FHNNP/NF catalyst. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) analysis was performed to investigate the surface morphologies of the above three catalysts. For pure NNP/NF, the nanorods with rough surface are attached tightly on the NF, while the typical interconnected nanosheets architecture on the surface of NF skeleton can be clearly observed for pure FH/NF (Figure S3, Supporting Information). The SEM images of the FHNNP/NF in Figures [1c](#page-2-0) and Figure S4 (Supporting Information) present that abundant nanosheets are grown on the tip of the nanorod array, thus forming the nanosheet/nanorod hierarchical architecture. The well-designed hierarchical architecture could increase the roughness of the catalyst surface, which can substantially reduce the gas–solid contact region to facilitate the reactant ions diffusion and gas products release.[\[18\]](#page-10-0) The wettability of the bare NF, NNP/NF, FH/NF, and FHNNP/NF was investigated by measuring the contact angles (CAs) of a droplet of 1.0 m KOH on their surfaces to demonstrate the claim (Figure S5a, Supporting Information). As expected, the CAs are 119°, 26°, 25°, and 0° for the bare NF, NNP/NF, FH/NF, and FHNNP/NF, respectively, indicating the fastest transport of electrolyte ions on the FHNNP/NF surface. The unique nanostructure of the FHNNP/NF with excellent hydrophilicity could pump liquid phase electrolytes onto the catalyst surface for accelerating the electrolyte ion transfer.[\[19\]](#page-10-0) Meanwhile, the bubblereleasing behavior of the above catalysts was studied by the CAs measurement of the air bubbles in the electrolyte (Figure S5b,

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) Schematic of the synthesis process of FHNNP/NF. b) XRD patterns of NNP/NF and FHNNP/NF. c) SEM image, d) TEM image, e,f) HRTEM image, and the corresponding SAED patterns of FHNNP/NF. g) Elemental mapping of FHNNP/NF.

Supporting Information). The FHNNP/NF catalyst presents outstanding aerophobicitic characteristics with the biggest bubble CA of 149° compared with bare NF (126°), NNP/NF (133°), and FH/NF (142°), revealing that the well-designed hierarchical architecture can lower the contact region between bubbles and catalyst surface. Such a substantially reduced contact region could decrease the bubble adhesive force on the surface for minimizing the "bubble shielding effect", which is thus beneficial for the re-exposure of the active site to the electrolyte.[\[20\]](#page-10-0)

In order to further analyze the detailed structural information of FHNNP/NF, transmission electron microscopy (TEM) was conducted (Figure 1d). Two different regions with an obvious boundary can be observed, where the dark area refers to the nanorod and the light area corresponds to the nanosheet, suggesting the formation of the interface in FHNNP/NF. Highresolution TEM (HRTEM) is utilized to further explore the atomic-scale structure of this interface at atomic scale. Interestingly, a continuous tri-phase structure with dual-interface can be clearly observed (Figure 1e; Figure S6a–d, Supporting Information). Enlagred HRTEM images (Figure 1f) from the nanorod region show that the fringe spacing of 0.192 nm can be correlated to the (210) planes of Ni2P in phase I and the interplanar spacings of 0.234 nm can be matched with (312) planes of Ni12P5 in phase II, which can be further confirmed by the selected area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern (Figure 1f). In parallel, the phase III in the nanosheet region belongs to amorphous FeOOH (Figure 1f), which is in line with the XRD results. Figure 1g and Figure S6e,f display the energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) elemental mapping analysis for the FHNNP/NF. As can be seen, the Fe and O atoms are uniformly distributed in the outer FeOOH nanosheet area, while the Ni and P atoms are mainly concentrated in the inner Ni phosphide nanorod region. Weak P

<span id="page-3-0"></span>**Figure 2.** High-resolution XPS spectra and XPS depth profile of a,b) Ni 2p, and c,d) Fe 2p. e) Fe K-edge XANES spectra, and f) Fe K-edge FT-EXAFS spectra for FHNNP/NF, FH/NF, Fe foil, Fe3O4 and FeO. g) Wavelet transform for the k3-weighted EXAFS signals of FHNNP/NF and FH/NF. h,i) KPFM images of FHNNP/NF: the difference of thickness and potential between nanorod and nanosheet are collected and marked with red and blue lines.

signals can also be detected in the FeOOH nanosheet region, which may result from the outward diffusion of P atoms from Ni phosphide nanorod surface during the electrodeposition process.[\[21\]](#page-10-0) In this case, the diffused P atoms could be oxidated into the phosphate, which may act as the passivation layer to protect the active sites from chlorine corrosion in seawater.[\[22\]](#page-10-0) The above results can collectively confirm that the FHNNP/NF catalyst possessing the dual-interface structure of FeOOH/Ni12P5 and Ni12P5/Ni2P are successfully fabricated.

The surface composition and chemical state of the catalysts are unveiled by the X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The overall XPS spectrum in Figure S7a (Supporting Information) reveals the existence of Ni, O, Fe, and P elements in the FHNNP/NF, which is in line with the TEM-EDS mapping result (Figure [1g\)](#page-2-0). The high-resolution Ni 2p3/2 XPS spectrum of the FHNNP/NF (**Figure 2**a) can be fitted into three signal peaks. The peak located at 852.6 eV is attributed to the formation of Ni─P bond, while the other characteristic peak at 856.0 eV with a satellite peak of 861.6 eV corresponds to the Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> species that may be caused by the natural oxidation of metallic Ni under air exposure.[\[23\]](#page-10-0) Notably, the intensity of Ni─P peak in FHNNP/NF is significantly weaker than that of NNP/NF, which is probably due to the cover of Fe oxyhydroxide nanosheets on the Ni phosphide nanorod surface. After removing some surface oxyhydroxide by argon ion beam etching (Figure 2b), the signal of Ni─P peak increases dramatically and shifts to lower binding energy with the decay of oxidation state signals of Ni. With the increase of etching duration time, there are two enlarged signal peaks located at 129.0 eV (P 2p3/2) and 129.8 eV (P 2p1/2) in the P 2p spectrum as well as the decreased Fe─OH (532.2 eV) and Fe─O (531.2 eV) peaks in O 1s spectrum,[\[24\]](#page-10-0) as shown in Figure S7b–e (Supporting Information). The depth profile results indicate the existence of **[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.afm-journal.de](http://www.afm-journal.de)**

Fe oxyhydroxide on the surface and metallic Ni phosphide in the core for FHNNP/NF (Figure [2b\)](#page-3-0). Figure [2c](#page-3-0) displays that the Fe 2p XPS spectrum of the FHNNP/NF could be deconvoluted into two signal peaks at 712.5 (Fe 2p3/2) and 725.6 eV (Fe 2p1/2) with the associated satellite peaks at 718.6 and 730.4 eV, which could be ascribed to the Fe3<sup>+</sup> species in the FeOOH component.[\[7c\]](#page-10-0) Compared to the FH/NF, two new signal peaks of metallic Fe emerging at 704.9 and 722.1 eV can be observed in Fe 2p spectrum for the FHNNP/NF, demonstrating that the possible occurrence of Fe─P bonding at the interface.[\[25\]](#page-10-0) The formation of Fe─P bonds may be attributed to the electrostatic attraction between positively charged Fe3<sup>+</sup> ions and negatively charged P atoms during the electrodeposition process, where the adsorbed Fe<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> ions are further reduced and bonded with P atoms under the action of deposition current. Meanwhile, the Fe─P bonds generation indicates the successful construction of tightly integrated heterointerface in FHNNP/NF, and it can further act as the charge transfer channel for the rapid electron transmission. Meanwhile, the Fe─P peak exhibits a slight enhancement as the argon ion beam etching process exposes more interface structures, further validating the correlation between Fe─P bond formation and interface structure (Figure [2d\)](#page-3-0). Ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy (UPS) is utilized to obtain actual work functions (Φ) values of FeOOH, Ni12P5, and Ni2P components (Figure S8, Supporting Information). As shown in Figure S8 (Supporting Information), the calculated Φ values of Ni12P5 is 3.74 eV, which is smaller than those of FeOOH (4.37 eV) and Ni2P (3.97 eV), indicating that the electrons in Ni12P5 can be captured by both FeOOH and Ni2P.

X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) characterization is adopted to investigate the local electronic structure and atomic coordination of Fe. In the normalized X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) spectrum (Figure [2e\)](#page-3-0), the absorption edge energy of Fe K-edge for FHNNP/NF is larger than those for Fe foil, FeO, and Fe3O4, while smaller than that for FH/NF, indicating that the average chemical valence state of Fe element may be between +8/3 and +3.[\[26\]](#page-10-0) The decrease of the Fe valence state for FHNNP/NF manifests that electrons could be transferred from Ni phosphide to FeOOH through the interface.[\[27](#page-10-0)] In the Fourier transform (FT) of the Fe K-edge extended XAFS spectra (FT-EXAFS), there are two typical peaks corresponding to Fe─O (≈1.47 Å) and Fe─Fe (≈2.66 Å) bonds (Figure [2f\)](#page-3-0). Figure S9a (Supporting Information) shows that the intensity of Fe─O peak decreases obviously in FHNNP/NF compared to that of FH/NF, further indicating the interfacial electron injection. The Fe Kedge FT-EXAFS spectrum in K space declares that the oscillation trend of FHNNP/NF is similar to that of FH/NF but completely different from those of Fe foil, FeO, and Fe3O4 (Figure S9b,c, Supporting Information), manifesting that the coordination environment of Fe atoms has almost been unchanged.[\[28\]](#page-10-0) In addition, wavelet transform (WT) of Fe K edge EXAFS oscillations (Figure [2g;](#page-3-0) Figure S9d–f, Supporting Information) was carried out to more precisely characterize the coordination environment in FHNNP/NF. From the WT contour plots of FHNNP/NF and FH/NF (Figure [2g\)](#page-3-0), the typical Fe─Fe bond (≈8.08 Å<sup>−</sup>1) and Fe─O bond (≈4.87 Å<sup>−</sup>1) are further confirmed. Atomic force microscopy (AFM) results show that the thickness of FeOOH lamellae and the diameter of Ni phosphide rod are measured to be ≈21 and ≈275 nm, respectively (Figure [2h,i,](#page-3-0) marked with red dash line). Kelvin-probe force microscopy (KPFM) has been used to probe the BEF and potential distribution of FHNNP/NF surface. We first compared the surface potentials of pure FeOOH sheet and pure Ni phosphide rod, which have similar values of ≈30.4 and ≈29.2 mV, respectively (Figure S10, Supporting Information). Interestingly, the high potential difference of ≈32 mV at the interface can be detected when the FeOOH contacts with Ni phosphide to form a junction (Figure [2h,i,](#page-3-0) marked with blue dish line), suggesting the construction of an interfacial BEF between FeOOH and Ni phosphide.[\[29\]](#page-10-0) It is possible that the spontaneous electron transfer occurs from Ni phosphide to FeOOH across the interface.

#### **2.2. Investigation of HzOR Performance**

The HzOR activities of the FHNNP/NF, NNP/NF, FH/NF, and benchmark RuO2/NF are evaluated using a typical threeelectrode system. The linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) measurement is carried out with different N2H4 concentrations from 0.1 to 0.6 m in alkaline solution. As shown in Figure S11 (Supporting Information), the current increases continually along with the addition of N2H4 concentration and finally keeps constant when reaching 0.4 m, illustrating that the active site of the FHNNP/NF catalyst is fully utilized at 0.4 m N2H4 concentration. Therefore, the 1.0 m KOH/0.4 m N2H4 solution is selected as the electrolyte for electrochemical measurements. **Figure [3](#page-5-0)**a illustrates the LSV curves of the as-prepared catalysts for evaluating their HzOR activities, where FHNNP/NF only requires the working potentials of −44, −12, and 1 mV to achieve the current densities of 10, 50, and 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> (Figure [3b\)](#page-5-0), respectively, much lower than those of the NNP/NF (−30, 1, and 18 mV), FH/NF (−18, 114, and 140 mV), RuO2/NF (−14, 60, and 136 mV), and also superior to the recently reported catalysts (Table S1, Supporting Information). Meanwhile, the FHNNP/NF also displays the smallest Tafel slope value of 41.6 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> in contrast the NNP/NF (51.9 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), FH/NF (91.5 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), and RuO2/NF (181.0 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), indicating the accelerated catalytic kinetics for HzOR (Figure [3c\)](#page-5-0). The optimized HzOR reaction kinetics is further assessed by electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS). As shown in Figure S12 (Supporting Information), the charge transfer resistance (*R*ct) of FHNNP/NF (0.889 Ω) is smaller than those of NNP/NF (1.336 Ω) and FH/NF (1.673 Ω), confirming the fastest electron transfer kinetics. The durability is a crucial criterion to estimate the HzOR performance of catalysts, which can be measured through various methods. The comparison of LSV curves before and after 2000 cycles exhibits a negligible decline in current density, suggesting excellent cycling stability for the FHNNP/NF (Figure S13, Supporting Information). The longterm stability under a high current density of 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> is investigated via a chronopotentiometry curve (Figure 3g), which shows that the FHNNP/NF could steadily operate over 100 h period. Additionally, Figure 3h presents the multi-step chronopotentiometry curve for the FHNNP/NF. As can be seen, the potential remains stable under various current densities at each stage, implying remarkable durability over a wide potential window.

Seawater, which accounts for over 97% of water coverage on earth, has been regarded as a nearly inexhaustible hydrogen resource, and could play a pivotal role in promoting the industrialization of energy-saving hydrogen production.[\[3b\]](#page-10-0) The HzOR

<span id="page-5-0"></span>**Figure 3.** a) LSV curves, b) overpotentials at 10, 50, and 100 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> and c) Tafel slopes of FHNNP/NF, NNP/NF, NNP/NF and RuO2/NF in 1.0 m KOH solution. d) LSV curves, e) overpotentials at 10, 50, and 100 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> and f) Tafel slopes of FHNNP/NF, NNP/NF, NNP/NF, and RuO2/NF in alkaline seawater. g) Chronopotentiometry curves and h) multi-chronoamperometry curves of FHNNP/NF.

performance of the catalysts is evaluated in alkaline seawater containing of 0.4 m N2H4. As shown in Figure 3d,e, the FHNNP/NF exhibits the best HzOR catalytic activity with the current densities of 10, 50, and 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at ultralow working potentials of −8, 28, and 44 mV, respectively. In sharp contrast, the NNP/NF (8, 65, and 93 mV), FH/NF (10, 81, and 131 mV) and RuO2/NF (13, 114, and 229 mV) need relatively high potentials to reach the same current density level. In addition, the required working potential of the FHNNP/NF to achieve a quite high current density of 800 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> is merely 0.14 V, implying its huge potential for industry-level applications. Note that the catalytic activity of FHNNP/NF in alkaline seawater is inferior to that in alkaline solution, which may be due to the poisoning of active sites by pollutants and insoluble.[\[3c\]](#page-10-0) This result can be further confirmed by the decline of double-layer capacitance (*C*dl) values in alkaline seawater (Figure S14, Supporting Information). The corresponding Tafel plot of FHNNP/NF (Figure 3f) shows a smaller slope of 51.9 mV dec<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> compared with those of NNP/NF (70.7 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), FH/NF (128.3 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), and RuO2/NF (213.2 mV dec−1), suggesting the fastest HzOR kinetics of FHNNP/NF in seawater. The EIS result reveals the accelerated charge transfer dynamics for FHNNP/NF (Figure S15, Supporting Information), which has been demonstrated with a relatively low *R*ct value of 0.384 Ω compared to NNP/NF (0.541 Ω) and FH/NF (1.056 Ω). The comparison of HzOR and OER activities for FHNNP/NF is performed and shown in Figure S16 (Supporting Information). The sluggish OER requires a much higher potential than HzOR for delivering the same current density, demonstrating the significant kinetics advantage for HzOR. Such a dramatic reduction in working potential is undoubtedly beneficial to the energy-saving hydrogen production. The LSV curve of FHNNP/NF displays a negligible decrease in current density after 2000 cycles in comparation with the initial ones (Figure S17, Supporting Information). Additionally, it can also be found that the

**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.afm-journal.de](http://www.afm-journal.de)**

FHNNP/NF not only maintains its HzOR activity at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> current density over 100 h (Figure [3g\)](#page-5-0), but also keeps the potential constant in each step (Figure [3h\)](#page-5-0), illustrating the stable HzOR performance in seawater. The outstanding catalytic durability can be further strongly evidenced by the morphological and compositional characterizations after long-term HzOR operation. The SEM images of FHNNP/NF (Figure S18, Supporting Information) display that the nanoarrays feature of FHNNP/NF is still well preserved. No obvious change in the components can be observed in the XRD spectrum, except for a slight crystallinity change (Figure S19a, Supporting Information). The change of chemical state and bonding is further analyzed in detail by the XPS spectra (Figure S19b–f, Supporting Information). The peaks of Ni─P disappear with the increased Ni─O and P─O area, indicating the surficial oxidation of Ni phosphide component during the HzOR process.[\[30\]](#page-10-0) It can be found that the peak intensity of Fe─O in the Fe 2p spectrum significantly increases with the decreased OH<sup>−</sup> feature in O 1s spectrum, which may be ascribed to the formation of Fe3<sup>+</sup> species.[\[31\]](#page-10-0)

#### **2.3. Theoretical Calculation**

To obtain further theoretical insight into the enhanced mechanism of the dual-BEF in HzOR activity, density functional theory (DFT) calculations are conducted based on the amorphous FeOOH, Ni12P5 (312), Ni2P (210), FeOOH/Ni12P5 (312), and FeOOH/Ni12P5 (312)/Ni2P (210) models shown in Figure S20 (Supporting Information). Calculation of charge density difference is adopted to investigate the interfacial charge characteristics of the target FeOOH/Ni12P5/Ni2P model (**Figure 4**[a\)](#page-7-0). It can be seen that FeOOH could chemically bond with Ni12P5 to form a heterogeneous interface, through which the electron transfer of 2.13e from Ni12P5 to FeOOH can be realized, matching well with the above XPS results. Meanwhile, the electron of 0.5e is also transferred from Ni12P5 to Ni2P via the Ni12P5/Ni2P interface. As a result, the electrons in Ni12P5 move in opposite directions and finally reach at the FeOOH and Ni2P through the as-formed dual-interface, respectively, constructing the reverse dual-BEF at FeOOH/Ni12P5 and Ni12P5/Ni2P interfaces. In order to explain this phenomenon, we analyze the electronic behavior from the perspective of work function. As known, the charge transport capacity at the interface is essentially the intrinsic driving force of hetero-components for pumping and accumulating electrons, which can be determined by the work function.[\[15a\]](#page-10-0) As shown in Figure [4b](#page-7-0) and Figure S21 (Supporting Information), the work function values of FeOOH and Ni2P are calculated to be 5.042 and 5.031 eV, which are 0.217 and 0.206 eV higher than that of Ni12P5, respectively. This suggests that FeOOH and Ni2P could capture electrons from Ni12P5 through the formation of chemical bonds at the interfaces (Figure [4c\)](#page-7-0), which is in line with the UPS and charge density difference analysis. The density of states (DOS) is performed to predict the change of electronic structure of FeOOH/Ni12P5/Ni2P upon forming the reverse dual-BEF (Figure [4d\)](#page-7-0). Compared to FeOOH and FeOOH/Ni12P5, the FeOOH/Ni12P5/Ni2P shows higher electronic state occupation across the Fermi level, thus possessing better electronic conductivity, which may benefit to the electronic interaction between the adsorbed intermediate species and the catalyst surface.[\[32\]](#page-10-0) As a result, such a constructed dual-BEF in the catalyst can exhibit the synergistic effect for the improvement of the catalytic activities, which can not only optimize the absorption ability of intermediates on the catalyst surface but also accelerate the electron transfer, the electrochemical reaction dynamics thus being enhanced. The analysis of projected DOS (PDOS) further elucidates that the increased electron states at the Fermi level are mainly attributed to the contribution of Ni 3d orbitals (Figure S22, Supporting Information), validating that introducing Ni12P5 and Ni2P into FeOOH plays a crucial role in improving the conductivity.

Additionally, the as-formed reverse dual-BEF is speculated to largely influence the surficial charge redistribution, which could regulate the hydrazine intermediates adsorption process.[\[33\]](#page-10-0) The d-band center (*E*d) is broadly used as the robust descriptor to estimate the binding strength of adsorbates on catalyst surfaces.[\[34\]](#page-10-0) Therefore, the d-orbital DOS (d-DOS) of Fe atoms in FeOOH and FeOOH/Ni12P5, the FeOOH/Ni12P5/Ni2P are analyzed to calculate the adsorption strength of hydrazine intermediate species during the HzOR process (Figure [4e\)](#page-7-0). The calculated *E*<sup>d</sup> of Fe atoms (*E*Fe 3d) in FeOOH is determined to be −1.634 eV, which shifts up to be −1.628 eV for FeOOH/Ni12P5 after the construction of BEF pointing from Ni12P5 to FeOOH, thus leading to the enhanced adsorption capacity. This upward shift of *E*Fe 3d in FeOOH/Ni12P5 is mainly attributed to the electron injection at the heterogeneous interface, which could efficiently increase the electron numbers of Fe 3d orbitals and fill in the valence band top.[\[35\]](#page-10-0) Interestingly, the *E*Fe 3d of FeOOH/Ni12P5/Ni2P (−1.632 eV) shifts away from the Fermi level and finally remains between FeOOH and FeOOH/Ni12P5 when the reverse BEF pointing from Ni12P5 to Ni2P is also constructed within the catalyst. The moderate *E*Fe 3d in FeOOH/Ni12P5/Ni2P indicates the appropriate electrons filling in the d-orbital of Fe atoms. This change of *E*Fe 3d may be originated from the reverse dual-BEF interaction dilutes the electron injection that from Ni12P5 into FeOOH, thus affecting the Fe 3d electronic structure. In response, projected DOS (PDOS) is integrated to calculate the detailed electron numbers in Fe 3d orbitals (Figure [4f\)](#page-7-0), in which FeOOH exhibits lower numbers than that of FeOOH/Ni12P5, indicating that Fe atoms obtain electrons from Ni12P5 in FeOOH/Ni12P5. [\[36\]](#page-10-0) The FeOOH/Ni12P5/Ni2P exhibits the reduced electron number in Fe 3d orbital compared to FeOOH/Ni12P5 but still higher than that of FeOOH, further verifying that the electron density of Fe atoms can be adjusted by introducing the reverse dual-BEF. The appropriate electron cloud density around Fe sites could balance the absorption and desorption strength for reaction intermediates, thus improving the catalytic HzOR activity.[\[37\]](#page-10-0) Such an optimized binding capacity between intermediates and Fe sites resulting from our constructed FeOOH/Ni12P5/Ni2P dual-BEF may also be beneficial for optimizing the catalytic activities toward hydrazine oxidation by weakening the strength of N─H bonds in subsequent dehydrogenation process. Therefore, the Gibbs free energy of each step in the HzOR process for the Fe site in FeOOH, FeOOH/Ni12P5, and FeOOH/Ni12P5/Ni2P and Ni site in Ni12P5 and Ni2P are calculated and displayed in Figure 4g and Figure S23 (Supporting Information), respectively. The most endothermic step for all the above models is found to be the first dehydrogenation (\*NH2NH2 → \*NH2NH), therefore,

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 4.** a) Charge density difference of the FeOOH/Ni12P5/Ni2P. b) Work function values of FeOOH, Ni12P5, and Ni2P. c) Charge transfer process in FeOOH/Ni12P5/Ni2P. d) DOS curves, and e) PDOS curves of FeOOH/Ni12P5/Ni2P, FeOOH/Ni12P5, and FeOOH. f) The numbers of 3d states. g) Adsorption energy of HzOR process, and h) Comparison of free energy in RDS for FeOOH/Ni12P5/Ni2P, FeOOH/Ni12P5, Ni2P, Ni12P5 and FeOOH. g) Comparison of free energy of RDS. i) PDOS curves for N2H4 adsorption on the Fe site of FeOOH/Ni12P5/Ni2P, FeOOH/Ni12P5, and FeOOH. j) Charge density difference and k) ELF evaluation of N2H4 adsorption on the FeOOH/Ni12P5/Ni2P.

represents the rate-determining step (RDS) for the HzOR process. Encouragingly, it can be observed that the corresponding free energy difference of the RDS displays a successive decrease from FeOOH (3.686 eV) to Ni12P5 (0.652 eV) and Ni2P (0.63 eV), and then to FeOOH/Ni12P5 (0.344 eV) and FeOOH/Ni12P5/Ni2P (0.250 eV), revealing that the construction of reverse dual-BEF in heterostructure catalyst is more conducive to promoting the dehydrogenation process compared with the single-BEF as well as pure components (Figure 4h).

To reveal the underlying mechanism of favorable dehydrogenation on FeOOH/Ni12P5/Ni2P, the PDOS is performed to

**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.afm-journal.de](http://www.afm-journal.de)**

explore the relationship between binding ability and electronic interaction for the adsorbed N2H4 on Fe sites. As presented in Figure [4i,](#page-7-0) FeOOH, FeOOH/Ni12P5, and FeOOH/Ni12P5/Ni2P show the d-p overlaps between the 3d-orbital in the Fe atom and N 2p orbital in the N2H4 molecule, indicating the strong orbital interaction.[\[38\]](#page-11-0) Furthermore, the electron hybridization of the Fe 3d and N 2p orbitals for FeOOH/Ni12P5/Ni2P places between those of the FeOOH and FeOOH/Ni12P5, suggesting a moderate binding force for the former.[\[39\]](#page-11-0) This appropriate N─Fe binding strength could theoretically balance the favorable adsorption of N2H4 on the catalyst surface and the rapid desorption of H from N in adsorbed N2H4, which may be a key factor in promoting dehydrogenation. The electronic interaction caused by d-p orbital hybridization can be more intuitively expressed through charge density difference. As shown in Figure S24a (Supporting Information), the N2H4 molecule adsorbs on the FeOOH surface via Fe─N bonding and supplies electrons to the Fe atom. Upon the introduction of Ni12P5 into FeOOH, the adsorption mode of N2H4 is switched into interfacial dual-site adsorption one (Figure S24b, Supporting Information), in which two N atoms in N2H4 are captured by the Ni and Fe sites, respectively, and the electrons in N2H4 mainly flow to Fe sites. Combining with Gibbs free energy analysis, it can be reasonably inferred that the dualsite adsorption model can effectively reduce energy barriers of the dehydrogenation process. Similarly, the dual-site adsorption of N2H4 also occurs in FeOOH/Ni12P5/Ni2P. Meanwhile, relatively more negative charge transfer from N2H4 to the Ni site of Ni12P5 due to the synergistic effect of reverse dual-BEF, resulting in the reduced electron density at the Fe site of FeOOH for achieving optimized electronic behavior (Figure [4j;](#page-7-0) Figure S24c,d, Supporting Information). The bonding interaction between N atoms and metal sites can be visualized with an Electron localization function (ELF) image (Figure [4k\)](#page-7-0), where the large difference of ELF values between Fe/Ni and nitrogen atoms of FeOOH/Ni12P5/Ni2P unambiguously reveals the existence of Fe─N and Ni─N bonds between interface and the adsorbed N2H4 molecule. Therefore, DFT calculations uncover that optimal Fe-3d electron configuration induced by the reverse dual-BEF could tailor Fe─N binding force for adjusting the adsorption strength of N2H4 molecules on the catalyst surface, the RDS (\*NH2NH2→\*NH2NH) of dehydrogenation process thus being greatly promoted on FeOOH/Ni12P5/Ni2P.

#### **2.4. Investigation of Lab-scale HSE Performance**

Considering the remarkable HzOR performance of the FHNNP/NF, a hybrid seawater electrolyzer (HSE) unit is assembled using the as-obtained FHNNP/NF as anode (**Figure 5**[a;](#page-9-0) Figure S25, Supporting Information), in which the HSE unit takes alkaline seawater with and without 0.4 m N2H4 as the anodic and cathodic electrolytes, respectively. Meanwhile, the heterogeneous NNP/NF catalyst has been used as a cathode due to its potential advantages in a simple preparation process, high conductivity, and resistance to chlorine corrosion.[\[22a,23b\]](#page-10-0) As shown in Figure [5b,c,](#page-9-0) the current densities of 10, 50, and 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> can be obtained at the cell voltages of 0.22, 0.33, and 0.38 V for the HSE unit assembled by FHNNP/NF(+)||NNP/NF(−), while it requires higher voltages to reach the same-level current densities by using NNP/NF(+)||NNP/NF(−), FH/NF(+)||NNP/NF(−) and RuO2/NF(+)||NNP/NF(−). In sharp contrast, even higher cell voltages of 1.70, 1.81, and 1.86 V are needed for the conventional alkaline seawater electrolyzer (ASE) under the same conditions, indicating the possible reduced energy consumption by using HzOR-assisted seawater electrolysis.[\[40\]](#page-11-0) As a proof of concept, the power consumption varies with the amount of H2 production has been calculated for the HSE and ASE units, where 16.4 W h of electric energy can be consumed in HSE to generate per liter H2, 81% less energy equivalent input relative to ASE (Figure [5d;](#page-9-0) Figure S26, Supporting Information), further demonstrating the effective energy-saving hydrogen production for the HSE unit (Table S2, Supporting Information). Meanwhile, the HSE unit exhibits outstanding long-term durability for H2 evolution (Figure [5e\)](#page-9-0). The current density of 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> can be driven at the voltage of 0.38 V and operated stably for over 100 h.

In addition, the average Faraday efficiency (FE) of the HSE unit at 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> is calculated and shown in Figure [5f](#page-9-0) and Figure S27 (Supporting Information), in which ≈100% FEs have been achieved for both HER and HzOR. The enhanced mechanism toward HzOR in FHNNP/NF is schematically illustrated in Figure [5g.](#page-9-0) The work function difference (ΔΦ) induced reverse dual-BEF dilutes electron injections from Ni-phosphide into FeOOH in heterogeneous FHNNP/NF and regulates the d-orbitals electronic structure of Fe sites. The binding strength of Fe─N can be thus optimized for effectively balancing the N2H4 intermediates adsorption on the catalyst surface. As a result, a remarkably reduced Gibbs free energy for the key dehydrogenation step (RDS, \*NH2NH2→\*NH2NH) can be obtained, which is highly expected to realize the exceptional HzOR performance.

### **3. Conclusion**

In summary, the heterogeneous FHNNP/NF catalyst has been successfully synthesized and demonstrated as an efficient HzOR electrocatalyst to catalyze alkaline seawater electrolysis for energy-saving hydrogen production. Remarkably, the as-obtained FHNNP/NF catalyst exhibits exceptional electrocatalytic activity and high stability, which merely required overpotentials as low as −8 and 44 mV to achieve the current densities of 10 and 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> in 0.4 m N2H4 + alkaline seawater, respectively. Experimental results combining theoretical calculations reveal that the intrinsic dual-BEF in the opposite direction is responsible for the d-orbitals electron modulation of Fe sites at the FeOOH/phosphide interface, leading to the moderate N─Fe binding strength and the favorable adsorption of N2H4 intermediates on the catalyst surface. As a result, it drastically reduces the energy barrier of the rate-determining dehydrogenation step (RDS, \*NH2NH2→\*NH2NH). A lab-scale HSE unit equipped with FHNNP/NF(+)||NNP/NF(−) was fabricated and operated at a cell voltage of 0.33 V with a dramatically low electricity expense of 16.4 Wh L<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> H2 at 50 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, indicating its huge practical potential for energy saving hydrogen production. This study elucidates that the dual-electric-field enhancement

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**Figure 5.** a) Schematic diagram of the two-electrode HSE unit. b) LSV curves of HSE and ASE units. c) Potentials at 10, 50, and 100 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> of HSE and ASE for FHNNP/NF||NNP/NF, and HSE for NNP/NF||NNP/NF, FH/NF||NNP/N. d) Comparison of the electricity consumption of HSE and ASE units. e) The chronoamperometry curve of the HSE unit. f) Generated H2 and N2 amounts for the HSE unit and the corresponding Faraday efficiency. g) Schematic illustration of HzOR promotion mechanisms for FHNNP/NF.

mechanism for HzOR electrocatalyst including the Fe 3d electronic structure adjustment as well as the adsorption and activation of N2H4 intermediates, which provides a guideline for the rational design of highly efficient catalysts for various electrochemical processes.

#### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

This work was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Nos. 22279124 and 52261145700), the Natural Science Foundation of Shandong Province (No. ZR2020ZD10), and the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities (No. 202262010).

#### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

#### **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

## **Keywords**

d-orbital regulation, Fe site, hydrazine oxidation reaction, interfacial electric field, seawater electrolysis

Received: September 19, 2023 Revised: October 25, 2023

- Published online: November 21, 2023
- <span id="page-10-0"></span>[1] a) J. Zhang, Y. Zhao, X. Guo, C. Chen, C.-L. Dong, R.-S. Liu, C.-P. Han, Y. Li, Y. Gogotsi, G. Wang, *Nat. Catal.* **2018**, *1*, 985; b) C.-T. Dinh, A. Jain, F. P. G. De Arquer, P. De Luna, J. Li, N. Wang, X. Zheng, J. Cai, B. Z. Gregory, O. Voznyy, B. Zhang, M. Liu, D. Sinton, E. J. Crumlin, E. H. Sargent, *Nat. Energy* **2018**, *4*, 107; c) J. Yang, A. R. Mohmad, Y. Wang, R. Fullon, X. Song, F. Zhao, I. Bozkurt, M. Augustin, E. J. G. Santos, H. S. Shin, W. Zhang, D. Voiry, H. Y. Jeong, M. Chhowalla, *Nat. Mater.* **2019**, *18*, 1309.
- [2] a) J. Guo, Y. Zheng, Z. Hu, C. Zheng, J. Mao, K. Du, M. Jaroniec, S.-Z. Qiao, T. Ling, *Nat. Energy* **2023**, *8*, 264; b) H. Xie, Z. Zhao, T. Liu, Y. Wu, C. Lan, W. Jiang, L. Zhu, Y. Wang, D. Yang, Z. Shao, *Nature* **2022**, *612*, 673; c) C. Yan, Y.-L. Liu, Q. Zeng, G.-G. Wang, J.-C. Han, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2210837. d) X. Xu, X. Hou, P. Du, C. Zhang, S. Zhang, H. Wang, A. Toghan, M. Huang, *Nano Res.* **2022**, *15*, 7124.
- [3] a) W. Tong, M. Forster, F. Dionigi, S. Dresp, R. Sadeghi Erami, P. Strasser, A. J. Cowan, P. Farràs, *Nat. Energy* **2020**, *5*, 367; b) S. Dresp, F. Dionigi, M. Klingenhof, P. Strasser, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2019**, *4*, 933. c) L. Yu, Q. Zhu, S. Song, B. Mcelhenny, D. Wang, C. Wu, Z. Qin, J. Bao, Y. Yu, S. Chen, Z. Ren, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 5106.
- [4] F. Sun, J. Qin, Z. Wang, M. Yu, X. Wu, X. Sun, J. Qiu, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 4182.
- [5] a) J. Li, Y. Li, J. Wang, C. Zhang, H. Ma, C. Zhu, D. Fan, Z. Guo, M. Xu, Y. Wang, H. Ma, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2022**, *32*, 2109439; b) Q. Liu, X. Liao, Y. Tang, J. Wang, X. Lv, X. Pan, R. Lu, Y. Zhao, X.-Y. Yu, H. B. Wu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2022**, *15*, 3246; c) Q. Qian, J. Zhang, J. Li, Y. Li, X. Jin, Y. Zhu, Y. Liu, Z. Li, A. El-Harairy, C. Xiao, G. Zhang, Y. Xie, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 5984; d) C. Feng, M. Lv, J. Shao, H. Wu, W. Zhou, S. Qi, C. Deng, X. Chai, H. Yang, Q. Hu, C. He, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2305598; e) Y. Hu, T. Chao, Y. Li, P. Liu, T. Zhao, G. Yu, C. Chen, X. Liang, H. Jin, S. Niu, W. Chen, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *135*, e202308800.
- [6] a) Y. Zhu, J. Zhang, Q. Qian, Y. Li, Z. Li, Y. Liu, C. Xiao, G. Zhang, Y. Xie, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202113082; b) S. Zhang, C. Zhang, X. Zheng, G. Su, H. Wang, M. Huang, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ.* **2023**, *324*, 122207; c) L. Guo, Q. Yu, X. Zhai, J. Chi, T. Cui, Y. Zhang, J. Lai, L. Wang, *Nano Res.* **2022**, *15*, 8846.
- [7] a) C. Yang, W. Zhong, K. Shen, Q. Zhang, R. Zhao, H. Xiang, J. Wu, X. Li, N. Yang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2200077; b) C. Ni, H. Zheng, W. Liu, L. Wu, R. Li, K. Zhou, W. Zhang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2301075; c) S. Niu, W.-J. Jiang, Z. Wei, T. Tang, J. Ma, J.-S. Hu, L.-J. Wan, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 7005.
- [8] a) Y. Dai, B. Liu, Z. Zhang, P. Guo, C. Liu, Y. Zhang, L. Zhao, Z. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2210757; b) Y. Liu, Y. Chen, Y. Tian, T. Sakthivel, H. Liu, S. Guo, H. Zeng, Z. Dai, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2203615.
- [9] Y. Liu, J. Ding, F. Li, X. Su, Q. Zhang, G. Guan, F. Hu, J. Zhang, Q. Wang, Y. Jiang, B. Liu, H. B. Yang, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2207114.
- [10] a) G. Wu, X. Han, J. Cai, P. Yin, P. Cui, X. Zheng, H. Li, C. Chen, G. Wang, X. Hong, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 4200; b) M. Luo, Z. Zhao, Y. Zhang, Y. Sun, Y. Xing, F. Lv, Y. Yang, X. Zhang, S. Hwang, Y. Qin, J.-Y. Ma, F. Lin, D. Su, G. Lu, S. Guo, *Nature* **2019**, *574*, 81.
- [11] a) D. Yu, Y. Hao, S. Han, S. Zhao, Q. Zhou, C.-H. Kuo, F. Hu, L. Li, H.-Y. Chen, J. Ren, S. Peng, *ACS Nano* **2023**, *17*, 1701; b) Y. Liu, T. Sakthivel, F. Hu, Y. Tian, D. Wu, E. H. Ang, H. Liu, S. Guo, S. Peng, Z. Dai, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *13*, 2203797.
- [12] S. Zhang, C. Tan, R. Yan, X. Zou, F.-L. Hu, Y. Mi, C. Yan, S. Zhao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202302795.
- [13] L. Zhai, X. She, L. Zhuang, Y. Li, R. Ding, X. Guo, Y. Zhang, Y. Zhu, K. Xu, H. J. Fan, S. P. Lau, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202116057.

- [14] H. Yu, J. Huang, L. Jiang, L. Leng, K. Yi, W. Zhang, C. Zhang, X. Yuan, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ.* **2021**, *298*, 120618.
- [15] a) Z. Zhu, H. Huang, L. Liu, F. Chen, N. Tian, Y. Zhang, H. Yu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202203519; b) J. Xu, W. Li, W. Liu, J. Jing, K. Zhang, L. Liu, J. Yang, E. Zhu, J. Li, Y. Zhu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202212243; c) Z. Zhao, Z. Wang, J. Zhang, C. Shao, K. Dai, K. Fan, C. Liang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2214470.
- [16] X. Zhao, M. Liu, Y. Wang, Y. Xiong, P. Yang, J. Qin, X. Xiong, Y. Lei, *ACS Nano* **2022**, *16*, 19959.
- [17] X. Li, Y. Wang, J. Wang, Y. Da, J. Zhang, L. Li, C. Zhong, Y. Deng, X. Han, W. Hu, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2003414.
- [18] a) H. Li, S. Chen, Y. Zhang, Q. Zhang, X. Jia, Q. Zhang, L. Gu, X. Sun, L. Song, X. Wang, *Nat. Commun.* **2018**, *9*, 2452; b) X. Yu, Z.-Y. Yu, X.-L. Zhang, Y.-R. Zheng, Y. Duan, Q. Gao, R. Wu, B. Sun, M.-R. Gao, G. Wang, S.-H. Yu, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2019**, *141*, 7537; c) K. Tang, H. Hu, Y. Xiong, L. Chen, J. Zhang, C. Yuan, M. Wu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202202671.
- [19] X. Shan, J. Liu, H. Mu, Y. Xiao, B. Mei, W. Liu, G. Lin, Z. Jiang, L. Wen, L. Jiang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2019**, *132*, 1676.
- [20] X. Xu, J. Li, C. Zhang, S. Zhang, G. Su, Z. Shi, H. Wang, M. Huang, *Appl. Catal. B: Environ.* **2022**, *319*, 121949.
- [21] C. Lee, K. Shin, C. Jung, P.-P. Choi, G. Henkelman, H. M. Lee, *ACS Catal.* **2019**, *10*, 562.
- [22] a) J. Chang, G. Wang, Z. Yang, B. Li, Q. Wang, R. Kuliiev, N. Orlovskaya, M. Gu, Y. Du, G. Wang, Y. Yang, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2101425; b) B. Zhang, S. Liu, S. Zhang, Y. Cao, H. Wang, C. Han, J. Sun, *Small* **2022**, *18*, 2203852; c) T. Li, X. Zhao, M. Getaye Sendeku, X. Zhang, L. Xu, Z. Wang, S. Wang, X. Duan, H. Liu, W. Liu, D. Zhou, H. Xu, Y. Kuang, X. Sun, *Chem. Eng. J.* **2023**, *460*, 141413.
- [23] a) A. Kumar, V. Q. Bui, J. Lee, A. R. Jadhav, Y. Hwang, M. G. Kim, Y. Kawazoe, H. Lee, *ACS Energy Lett.* **2021**, *6*, 354. b) L. Wu, L. Yu, F. Zhang, B. Mcelhenny, D. Luo, A. Karim, S. Chen, Z. Ren, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2006484.
- [24] a) I. K. Mishra, H. Zhou, J. Sun, F. Qin, K. Dahal, J. Bao, S. Chen, Z. Ren, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2018**, *11*, 2246; b) L. Yu, L. Wu, B. Mcelhenny, S. Song, D. Luo, F. Zhang, Y. Yu, S. Chen, Z. Ren, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2020**, *13*, 3439.
- [25] G. Yang, Y. Jiao, H. Yan, Y. Xie, A. Wu, X. Dong, D. Guo, C. Tian, H. Fu, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2000455.
- [26] J. Zhang, G. Chen, Q. Liu, C. Fan, D. Sun, Y. Tang, H. Sun, X. Feng, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202209486.
- [27] J. Zhang, J. Qian, J. Ran, P. Xi, L. Yang, D. Gao, *ACS Catal.* **2020**, *10*, 12376.
- [28] Z. Xue, K. Liu, Q. Liu, Y. Li, M. Li, C.-Y. Su, N. Ogiwara, H. Kobayashi, H. Kitagawa, M. Liu, G. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 5048.
- [29] L. Bai, Z. Hu, C. Hu, S. Zhang, Y. Ying, Y. Zhang, L. Li, H. Zhang, N. Li, S. Shi, S. Liu, L. Hao, T. Liu, H. Huang, H. Huang, Y. Zhang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, e202301631.
- [30] L. Zhu, J. Huang, G. Meng, T. Wu, C. Chen, H. Tian, Y. Chen, F. Kong, Z. Chang, X. Cui, J. Shi, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 1997.
- [31] S. Zhao, Y. Yang, Z. Tang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, e202110186.
- [32] J. Sun, H. Xue, N. Guo, T. Song, Y.-R. Hao, J. Sun, J. Zhang, Q. Wang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 19435.
- [33] X. Wang, S. Li, Z. Yuan, Y. Sun, Z. Tang, X. Gao, H. Zhang, J. Li, S. Wang, D. Yang, J. Xie, Z. Yang, Y.-M. Yan, *Angew. Chem. Int.* **2023**, *62*, e202303794.
- [34] J. Zhou, Z. Han, X. Wang, H. Gai, Z. Chen, T. Guo, X. Hou, L. Xu, X. Hu, M. Huang, S. V. Levchenko, H. Jiang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2021**, *31*, 2102066.
- [35] J. Yin, J. Jin, Z. Yin, L. Zhu, X. Du, Y. Peng, P. Xi, C.-H. Yan, S. Sun, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 1724.
- [36] S. Zhou, Y. Zhao, R. Shi, Y. Wang, A. Ashok, F. Héraly, T. Zhang, J. Yuan, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2204388.

<span id="page-11-0"></span>**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.afm-journal.de](http://www.afm-journal.de)**

16163028, 2024, 10, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202311370 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

- [37] B. Fei, Z. Chen, J. Liu, H. Xu, X. Yan, H. Qing, M. Chen, R. Wu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 2001963.
- [38] W. Wang, Z. Wang, R. Yang, J. Duan, Y. Liu, A. Nie, H. Li, B. Y. Xia, T. Zhai, *Angew. Chem. Int.* **2021**, *60*, 22940.
- [39] K. L. Zhou, Z. Wang, C. B. Han, X. Ke, C. Wang, Y. Jin, Q. Zhang, J. Liu, H. Wang, H. Yan, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 3783.
- [40] H. Jin, X. Wang, C. Tang, A. Vasileff, L. Li, A. Slattery, S.-Z. Qiao, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2007508.