---
source: Zhou 等 - 2025 - Constructing of n ‐Type Semiconductor Heterostructures for Efficient Hydrazine‐Assisted Hydro.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 20.082s
generated: 2026-01-10T08:13:30.445333Z
---

# **Constructing of** *n***-Type Semiconductor Heterostructures for Efficient Hydrazine-Assisted Hydrogen Production**

*Min Zhou, Zhiqiang Yu, Guo Yu, Rong Fu, Shuocheng Wang, Wei Yang, Xiaobin Liao,\* Yan Zhao,\* and Zhaoyang Wang\**

**Hydrazine-assisted water electrolysis presents a promising approach toward energy-efficient hydrogen production. However, the progress of this technology is hindered by the limited availability of affordable, efficient, and durable catalysts. In this study, a feasible strategy is proposed for interface modulation that enables efficient hydrogen evolution and hydrazine oxidation through the construction of** *n***-type semiconductor heterostructures. The metal– semiconductor contacts are rationally designed using ruthenium nanoclusters and a range of metal oxide (M–O) semiconductor heterostructures, including** *p***-type semiconductor substrates (NiO, Co3O4, NiCo2O4, CuCo2O4, ZnCo2O4) and** *n***-type semiconductor substrate (Fe2O3). Intriguingly, Ru nanoclusters supported on** *p***-type M–O substrates induce a transition from** *p***-type M–O to** *n***-type M-O/Ru. The design of** *n***-type semiconductor heterostructures can significantly reduce space-charge regions and increase charge carrier concentration, thereby improving the electrical conductivity of electrocatalysts. Moreover, Ru atoms can serve as highly efficient active sites for hydrogen evolution reaction and hydrazine oxidation reaction. The NiO/Ru heterostructure can drive current densities of 10 and 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> with only 0.021 and 0.22 V cell voltages for hydrazine-assisted water electrolysis. This work provides new insights for the development of highly efficient semiconductor catalysts, enabling energy-saving hydrogen production.**

**1. Introduction**

The excessive consumption of fossil fuels in recent years has resulted in increasingly severe global environmental problems and energy crises, compelling people to develop other renewable energy sources to replace fossil fuels.[\[1,2\]](#page-14-0) Hydrogen (H2) is considered one of the promising alternative energy carriers due to its zero carbon emissions, environmental friendliness, renewability, and high energy density.[\[3\]](#page-14-0) Compared to traditional technologies, such as coal or petro-gas processing and methane reforming, using clean energy (solar or wind energy) for electrochemical overall water splitting is an environmentally friendly and efficient strategy for sustainable production of high-purity green hydrogen.[\[4,5\]](#page-14-0) Despite efforts to improve the technology, the widespread application of electrocatalytic water splitting is still plagued by heavy electricity consumption (*>*4.5 kWh m<sup>−</sup><sup>3</sup> H2) resulting from low-energy conversion efficiency (≈60%) and high operating voltage (*>*1.8 V).[\[6–9\]](#page-14-0) These challenges mainly originate from the sluggish anodic oxygen evolution reaction (OER, 4OH<sup>−</sup> → O2 + 2H2O + 4e<sup>−</sup>, 1.23 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode, vs. RHE) process. A promising approach has emerged for energy-efficient production of H2, which involves combining the hydrogen evolution reaction

(HER) with the electrooxidation of thermodynamically favorable organic compounds, such as urea,[\[10–14\]](#page-14-0) glucose,[\[15–17\]](#page-14-0) chitin,[\[18\]](#page-14-0) xylose,[\[19,20\]](#page-14-0) alcohols,[\[21–24\]](#page-14-0) sulfion,[\[8,25,26\]](#page-14-0) 5 hydroxymethylfurfural,[\[27,28\]](#page-14-0) 3,4-diaminofurazan,[\[29\]](#page-14-0) formic acid,[\[30\]](#page-14-0) aldehyde,[\[6,31\]](#page-14-0) amine,[\[32–34\]](#page-14-0) etc., to replace the slow OER

M. Zhou, G. Yu, R. Fu, S. Wang, Z. Wang School of Chemistry and Materials Science Hubei Engineering University No. 272 Traffic Avenue, Xiaogan, Hubei 432000, P. R. China E-mail: [wzy2022@hbeu.edu.cn](mailto:wzy2022@hbeu.edu.cn)

M. Zhou, Z. Yu, W. Yang, X. Liao, Y. Zhao State Key Laboratory of Silicate Materials for Architectures International School of Materials Science and Engineering Wuhan University of Technology Wuhan, Hubei 430070, P. R. China

E-mail: [xiaobinliao@whut.edu.cn;](mailto:xiaobinliao@whut.edu.cn) [yan2000@whut.edu.cn](mailto:yan2000@whut.edu.cn)

Y. Zhao The Institute of Technological Sciences Wuhan University Wuhan, Hubei 430072, P. R. China

College of Materials Science and Engineering Sichuan University

Chengdu, Sichuan 610065, P. R. China

Z. Wang

Y. Zhao

Hubei Provincial Key Laboratory of Green Materials for Light Industry Hubei University of Technology Wuhan, Hubei 430062, P. R. China

The ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under <https://doi.org/10.1002/adfm.202415058>

**DOI: 10.1002/adfm.202415058**

process and reduce energy consumption. Among them, the hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR, N2H4 + 4OH<sup>−</sup> → N2 + 4H2O + 4e<sup>−</sup>, −0.33 V vs. RHE) has attracted widespread attention due to its lower thermodynamic oxidation potential.[\[35,36\]](#page-14-0) Additionally, the HzOR process only generates nitrogen and water, without any greenhouse gas emissions. This coelectrolysis strategy significantly reduces the working voltage for hydrogen production while avoiding the generation of O2, eliminating the risk of explosive H2/O2 mixtures and making a high-efficiency and high-safety membrane-less electrochemical overall water splitting electrolysis system possible.

Currently, platinum (Pt) is recognized as the state-of-the-art catalyst for the HER due to its fast kinetics and good electrical conductivity, resulting in near-zero overpotential and extremely low Tafel slopes.[\[37\]](#page-14-0) However, the large-scale application of Pt catalyst is greatly limited by its scarcity, high cost, and instability. In contrast, Ruthenium (Ru) has a metal-hydrogen bond strength similar to Pt (65 kcal mol<sup>−</sup>1) but costs only one-fifth as much, making it a promising replacement.[\[38,39\]](#page-14-0) Nevertheless, the HER activity of Ru is significantly limited by the undesirable behavior of hydrogen adsorption/desorption and the high energy barrier for water dissociation at Ru sites.[\[40\]](#page-14-0) Recently, the construction of supported noble metal catalysts is widely considered as an effective approach to enhance electrocatalytic performance.[\[29,41\]](#page-14-0) Generally, combining different species to form heterogeneous interfaces can improve the utilization of precious metals, increase the number of catalytic active sites, induce charge transfer, alter charge density, and modulate the adsorption/desorption behavior of reactants/intermediates on the active sites, leading to a decrease in the reaction barrier and promotion of catalytic reactions.[\[42,43\]](#page-14-0) For supported noble metal catalysts, the commonly used supports include carbon materials,[\[44–46\]](#page-14-0) MXenes,[\[47\]](#page-14-0) metal oxides,[\[48–51\]](#page-14-0) metal hydroxides,[\[37,52\]](#page-14-0) metal chalcogenides,[[29,42,53\]](#page-14-0) metal carbides,[\[54,55\]](#page-15-0) and metal nitrides,[\[43,56\]](#page-14-0) metal phosphide.[\[57\]](#page-15-0) The chemical properties of the support can significantly alter the dispersion and structural stability of the catalyst, thereby regulating its activity and durability.[\[41\]](#page-14-0) Through the selection of suitable supports, the atomic hybrid orbitals and electronic structures at the interface between noble metals and supports can be effectively modulated. By incorporating density functional theory (DFT) calculations, a thorough comprehension of the catalytic reaction mechanism and internal factors that boost activity at the atomic level can be attained, thereby providing effective guidance for the practical development of highperformance catalysts.[\[58\]](#page-15-0) Metal-based supports, such as metal oxides, offer a superior solution by enabling metal nanoparticles to anchor via metal-oxygen bonds, resulting in a heterogeneous structure with strong electronic-metal-support interactions.[\[48,50\]](#page-14-0) This enhances the dispersion and stability of metal particles, improving the catalyst's activity and selectivity.[\[59,60\]](#page-15-0) Furthermore, metal oxides possess rich redox properties and actively participate in catalytic redox reactions. Compared to other types of metal compounds, semiconductor transition metal oxides have significant advantages in the diversity of their composition and structure, providing flexibility in the physical/chemical properties required for their electronic and crystal structure.[\[49,50,61\]](#page-14-0)

The electrocatalytic process on semiconductor catalysts is a complex and interdisciplinary process that involves both electrochemistry and solid-state physics.[\[62–64\]](#page-15-0) The reaction process is based on the fundamental principles of electrochemistry and carrier modulation mechanisms in solid-state physics. From the perspective of iontronics, the metal–insulator–semiconductor (MIS) structure is used to describe the semiconductor-electrolyte interface, especially the charge transfer mechanism at the interface.[\[62,65,66\]](#page-15-0) Inspired by the development of, Liu et al. used in-situ electronic/electrochemical measurements based on microelectrodes to reveal a universal self-gating phenomenon at the semiconductor-electrolyte interface, which elucidates the conductivity modulation of semiconductors in the electrocatalytic reaction process.[\[65\]](#page-15-0) The results indicate that the type of semiconductor catalyst is closely related to its electrocatalytic effect, with *n*-type semiconductor catalysts being favorable for cathodic reactions, such as HER, under a negative potential window. However, the catalytic activity of semiconductor oxides is greatly limited due to their low intrinsic carrier concentration and undesirable catalytic active. Based on the above considerations, it is crucial to design *n*-type semiconductor heterostructures combined with Ru, which could enhance the carrier concentration in the catalyst support through metal/semiconductor interface regulation, while providing higher catalytic active sites, in order to achieve efficient catalytic performance toward both HzOR and HER simultaneously.

Herein, we propose a feasible interface modulation strategy to achieve efficient hydrogen evolution and hydrazine oxidation by constructing *n*-type semiconductor heterostructures. Selecting common metal oxide (M-O) as carriers, including *p*-type semiconductor substrates (NiO, Co3O4, NiCo2O4, CuCo2O4, and ZnCo2O4) and *n*-type semiconductor substrate (Fe2O3), a series of metal semiconductor heterostructures were synthesized by loading ultrafine Ru nanoclusters through a facile electrodeposition process. Intriguingly, Ru nanoclusters supported on *p*-type M–O substrates induced a transition from p-type M-O to n-type M-O/Ru. The design of *n*-type semiconductor heterostructures can significantly reduce the space charge region and increase the concentration of charge carriers, thereby improving the conductivity of electrocatalysts. Additionally, Ru atoms can serve as efficient active sites for HzOR and HER. For hydrazine-assisted water electrolysis, the NiO/Ru heterostructure can drive current densities of 10 and 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> with only 0.021 and 0.22 V cell voltages. This work provides new insights for developing efficient semiconductor catalysts and achieving energy-saving hydrogen production.

# **2. Results and Discussion**

#### **2.1. Catalyst Preparation and Characterization**

A facile hydrothermal method and annealing process followed by electrodeposition processes were used to prepare 1D M–O/Ru semiconductor heterostructures supported on carbon fiber cloth (CFC), as illustrated in **Figure 1**[a.](#page-2-0) Here, we provide a specific illustration using the synthesis process of NiO/Ru heterostructure as an example. First, Ni-based nanoneedles precursor (Nipre) on CFC substrate was synthesized by a typical hydrothermal treatment of· Ni(NO3)2·6H2O and urea in deionized water

<span id="page-2-0"></span>**Figure 1.** a) Schematic illustration of synthetic procedure for M–O/Ru heterostructure. b) Schematic of the effect of surfaces on *n*-type semiconductor heterostructure (left) and *p*-type semiconductor (right) for HER.

at 120 °C for 12 h. The advantages of commercial CFC, such as its 3D braided structure, high conductivity, and excellent chemical/mechanical stability, make it a suitable adhesive-free substrate for materials growth.[\[25,29\]](#page-14-0) Subsequently, NiO nanoneedles with interconnected 3D network structure were produced during the annealing process at 400 °C for 2 h. Finally, the NiO/Ru catalyst was obtained through a conventional electrodeposition method utilized the cyclic voltammetry (CV) technique.[\[67\]](#page-15-0) According to the basic principles of solid-state physics, the majority carrier type for *n*-type semiconductors is electrons, which propagate in the conduction band, while the majority carrier type for *p*-type semiconductors is holes, which propagate in the valence band.[\[68\]](#page-15-0) Due to the weaker binding of the atomic nucleus to conduction band electrons, the migration rate of electrons is higher than that of holes. In the cathodic electrode of an electrochemical cell, a electric double layer is formed at the interface between the catalyst and electrolyte, while simultaneously creating a space charge region at the semiconductor side of the interface, as illustrated in Figure 1b. The combination of *n*-type semiconductor and Ru forms a typical Schottky contact. An internal electric field is created from the semiconductor to Ru due to the flow of electrons from the semiconductor to Ru resulting from the difference in work function. When an external positive potential field is applied, the migration of electrons from the semiconductor to Ru is accelerated, resulting in a reduced space charge layer compared to that of a single *p*-type semiconductor. This reduction could lead to a higher concentration of accumulated carriers, thereby improving the electronic conductivity of the catalyst. Additionally, Ru atoms can act as more active reaction sites, promoting the progress of electrocatalytic reactions.

The powder X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were used to analyze the phase structures of the prepared samples. As shown in Figure S1a (Supporting Information), the characteristic peaks of Ni-pre sample can be assigned to nickel carbonate hydroxide phase (PDF#029-0868). The scanning electron microscope (SEM) images indicate that the nanoneedles exhibit a morphology that covers the entire CFC substrate (Figure S1b,c, Supporting Information). The Ni-based precursor was calcined in air to transform nickel carbonate hydroxide into NiO nanoneedles with an interconnected 3D network structure (Figure S2, Supporting Information). Subsequently, Ru nanoclusters were anchored onto the surface of the NiO matrix using the electrochemical deposition method at a constant negative potential range. As shown in Figure 1a, NiO/Ru sample exhibited characteristic diffraction peaks at 37.3°, 43.4°, 63.0°, 75.6°, and 79.6° corresponding to the (111), (200), (220), (311), and (222) lattice planes of cubic NiO phase (PDF#01-075-0197), respectively. A broad peak located at around 25.6° was indexed to the CFC substrate, while no diffraction peaks related to Ru nanoclusters were observed, possibly due to their small size and low content. The SEM and transmission

electron microscopy (TEM) images in Figure [1b–d](#page-2-0) indicate that the interconnected 3D network with a porous structure is well

preserved. Figure [1e](#page-2-0) shows the high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) image for NiO/Ru, where the measured lattice spacings of 2.40 and 2.04 Å correspond to the NiO (111) and Ru (101) planes, respectively. The formation of NiO/Ru heterostructure was further verified via the high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM) images as presented in Figure [1f,g.](#page-2-0) A lattice fringe with a spacing of 2.13 Å was clearly attributed to the (002) plane of a Ru nanocluster located in the brighter contrast region. These results provide definitive evidence of the successful formation of the NiO/Ru heterostructure. Furthermore, the selected area electron diffraction (SAED) pattern of NiO/Ru exhibits a series of concentric circles that can be unambiguously attributed to the (111), (200), (220), (311), and (222) planes of the cubic NiO phase (Figure [1h\)](#page-2-0). The energy dispersive X-ray (EDX) spectrum (Figure [1i;](#page-2-0) Figure S3, Supporting Information) reveals the existence of of Ni, O, and Ru elements. The content of Ru in NiO/Ru was determined to be 4.0 at.% by inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrometer (ICP-AES). Simultaneously, the corresponding element mappings in Figure [1j–m](#page-2-0) provide further confirmation of the NiO/Ru heterostructure. Furthermore, the contact angle was measured to reveal the accessibility of the electrolyte into the NiO/Ru electrode. Comparatively, the bare CFC displays a superhydrophobic nature with a contact angle of 143° while the NiO/Ru electrode exhibited an improved wettability with a contact angle of ≈0° (Figure S4, Supporting Information). This result implies that the improved electrolyte wettability ensures sufficient contact, promoting electrocatalytic reactions. To confirm the generality of the electrodeposition strategy, a series of semiconductor heterostructures were synthesized according to the aforementioned process, including Co3O4/Ru, NiCo2O4/Ru, CuCo2O4/Ru, ZnCo2O4/Ru, and Fe2O3/Ru (see Supporting Information for synthesis details).

The chemical composition and valence states of the prepared samples were further investigated using X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) measurements. Figure [3a](#page-5-0) shows the XPS survey spectra, which reveal the presence of Ni, O, and Ru elements in NiO/Ru and Ni and O elements in NiO. In the highresolution Ni 2p spectra of NiO/Ru (Figure [3b\)](#page-5-0), the deconvoluted peaks at 853.8 and 871.2 eV are assigned to the 2p3/2 and 2p1/2 of the Ni<sup>2</sup><sup>+</sup> species, respectively. The peaks observed at 855.5 and 872.9 eV are attributed to the 2p3/2 and 2p1/2 of the Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> species, respectively, other peaks at 861.1 and 879.1 eV are corresponding to satellites.[\[49,69\]](#page-14-0) The Ni peaks of NiO/Ru exhibited a positive shift to a higher binding energy (0.3 eV) compared to NiO, indicating a higher valence state for Ni in NiO/Ru. This confirms that the NiO/Ru heterostructure has been successfully formed, and the heterojunction interface can facilitate electron transfer from NiO to Ru, thereby inducing the generation of highvalence Ni<sup>3</sup><sup>+</sup> species. **Figure [2](#page-4-0)**c presents the high-resolution O 1s spectrum, with peaks at 529.4, 531.1, and 532.7 eV attributed to lattice O, oxygen vacancies (Ov), and adsorbed OH, respectively, demonstrating the presence of OV. [\[49,50,69,70\]](#page-14-0) The binding energy of lattice O is higher in the NiO/Ru heterostructure compared to NiO, which is consistent with the peak separation results of Ni. Meanwhile, the proportion of oxygen vacancies in NiO/Ru (41%) is higher than that of NiO (28%), which may be

**[www.advancedsciencenews.com](http://www.advancedsciencenews.com) [www.afm-journal.de](http://www.afm-journal.de)**

due to the application of negative potential ranges during the electrodeposition process. Previous studies have reported that certain metal oxide/metal heterostructures can induce more oxygen vacancies at the interface, resulting in strong interfacial interactions and changes in chemical properties.[\[71–74\]](#page-15-0) The presence of oxygen vacancies in semiconductors leads to electron localization and small polaron formation, which affects the band structure, provides additional electronic states, reduces the band gap, and increases electrical conductivity and optical absorption.[\[75–77\]](#page-15-0) **Figure 3**[d](#page-5-0) presents the high-resolution Ru 3d and C 1s XPS spectrum of NiO/Ru compared to NiO. The three peaks centered at 280.3, 281.2, and 282.5 eV could be identified as Ru<sup>0</sup> 3d5/2, Ru<sup>+</sup> 3d5/2, and Ru0 3d3/2, respectively. The remaining three peaks at 284.5, 285.4, and 287.9 eV are assigned to C 1s, originating from adsorbed carbon species. In Figure [3e,](#page-5-0) the high-resolution Ru 3p spectra of NiO/Ru reveal two distinct peaks at 462.1 and 484.6 eV, corresponding to Ru<sup>0</sup> 3p3/2 and Ru<sup>0</sup> 3p1/2, respectively, which confirms the successful integration of metallic Ru clusters with the NiO substrate.[\[48\]](#page-14-0) Additionally, peaks observed at 464.4 and 486.9 eV can be attributed to Ru<sup>+</sup> 3p3/2 and Ru<sup>+</sup> 3p1/2, revealing the possible oxidation of the catalyst sample when exposed in the air.[\[50,78\]](#page-15-0) The XPS results revealed a strong interfacial interaction between Ru nanoclusters and NiO substrate, leading to the redistribution of electrons at the semiconductor/metal heterointerface.

Furthermore, DFT calculations were conducted to probe the electronic interaction by calculating the work function (WF) of NiO and Ru. Theoretical electrostatic potential energies of NiO and Ru are presented in Figure [3f.](#page-5-0) The WF was calculated by subtracting the Fermi level (*E*F) from the vacuum level (*E*v). The DFT calculations predicted WF values of 4.26 and 5.29 eV for NiO and Ru, respectively, which are consistent with previous studies.[\[44,79–81\]](#page-14-0) To validate the calculations, ultraviolet photoelectron spectroscopy (UPS) was employed to measure the WFs of the samples.[\[82\]](#page-15-0) The low-energy onset regions in Figure S5b (Supporting Information) confirm the metallic properties of Ru, whereas NiO exhibits semiconducting properties. The intercept with the binding energy axis indicates that the valence band edge of NiO is 0.61 eV away from the Fermi level. Additionally, the WFs of NiO and Ru were determined based on the secondary electron cutoff edge in the high-energy onset regions, with binding energies corresponding to the cutoff edges of 16.77 eV for NiO and 15.52 eV for Ru (Figure S5a, Supporting Information). The WFs of NiO and Ru based on this definition are estimated to be 4.45 and 5.7 eV, respectively. Both experimental and theoretical data support the observation that the WF of NiO is smaller than that of Ru. These results indicate that the NiO/Ru semiconductor heterostructure exhibits a significant charge transfer from NiO to Ru due to the difference in their WFs, resulting in the formation of a strong interfacial electric field. To verify the function of Ru modification, ultraviolet-visible diffused reflectance spectroscopy (UV-DRS) was performed to explore the band gap energies (*E*g) of NiO/Ru and NiO. As shown in Figure [3g,](#page-5-0) NiO/Ru (0.46 eV) exhibits a lower *E*<sup>g</sup> value compared to NiO (1.83 eV). A smaller bandgap means that electrons can more easily jump from the valence band to the conduction band, which enables increased electronic conductivity originating from the integration of Ru clusters. According to the WF and conduction valence band characterized above, a reliable band structure model

<span id="page-4-0"></span>**Figure 2.** a) XRD pattern of NiO/Ru. b,c) SEM images. d) TEM image. e) HRTEM image. f,g) HAADF-STEM images. h) SAED pattern. i) EDX spectrum. j–m) Elemental mapping images.

is established in Figure S5c (Supporting Information). Additionally, Mott-Schottky plots were obtained for the NiO/Ru and NiO samples to gain a deeper understanding of the inherent impact of the interface on the semiconductor heterostructure. As shown in Figure [3h,](#page-5-0) the NiO nanosheets exhibit a negative slope in the Mott–Schottky plot, indicating the *p*-type semiconductor property of NiO, which is consistent with the general understanding.[\[75,83\]](#page-15-0) It is intriguing that the Mott-Schottky plot for NiO/Ru exhibits a positive slope, indicating n-type semicon-

ductor properties (Figure [3i\)](#page-5-0). This finding suggests that the incorporation of Ru clusters can trigger a transition from the *p*type semiconductor phase to the n-type semiconductor phase, which is similar to previously reported results.[\[49\]](#page-14-0) This complex gate-controlled transition mechanism involves interface engineering and semiconductor electronics. The metal-induced gap states (MIGS) effect at the metal–semiconductor interface may be involved.[\[72\]](#page-15-0) As a semiconductor gets closer to the surface of a metal, the wave function of metal can penetrate the semicon-

<span id="page-5-0"></span>Figure 3. a) XPS survey spectra of NiO/Ru and NiO. High-resolution XPS spectra of Ni 2p b) and O 1s c) for NiO/Ru and NiO. High-resolution XPS spectra of Ru 3d and C 1s d). High-resolution XPS spectra of Ru 3p e) for NiO/Ru and Ru. The calculated work functions of NiO and Ru f). Tauc plots of NiO/Ru and NiO were determined by the Kubelka-Munk formula from the original UV-DRS g). Mott-Schottky plots of NiO h) and NiO/Ru i) were recorded at 1000 Hz with a 5 mV amplitude in a 1.0 M Na<sub>2</sub>SO<sub>4</sub> solution.

ductor, leading to the rehybridization of the wave function of the semiconductor, generating the gap states in the band gap of the semiconductor.[84,85] These electronic states can alter the band structure of the semiconductor and thus regulate the electrical conductivity. Besides, the aberration-corrected HAADF-STEM image was utilized to further elucidate the lattice strain in the NiO species. As depicted in Figure S6 (Supporting Information), the NiO lattice spacing near the NiO/Ru interface measures at 2.455 Å, exceeding that further away from the interface (2.419 Å), both longer than the standard NiO lattice spacing of 2.407 Å, indicating ≈0.5–2% lattice tensile strain. Additionally, geometric phase analysis (GPA) was conducted, revealing that the  $E_{xx}$  component of the strain tensor displays more tensile strain near the

heterointerface than away from it (Figure S6d, Supporting Information). The heterointerface induces lattice expansion in the NiO carrier, implying the presence of tensile stress. Based on previous studies, we speculate that the transition of the semiconductor type is also probably associated with the tensile strain induced by the heterojunction interface.<sup>[86,87]</sup> The stretching strain can flatten the gamma band near the Fermi level, thereby increasing the number of charge carriers.<sup>[88]</sup> The Mott-Schottky equation can be used to estimate the charge carrier density from the slope, as demonstrated below:[49,89]

$$\frac{1}{C^2} = \frac{2}{\varepsilon \varepsilon_0 e_0 N_D} \left( V - V_{FB} - \frac{k_B T}{e_0} \right) \tag{1}$$

where *e*, , 0, *N*D, *V*, *V*FB, *k*B, and *T* represent the charge of electron, the dielectric constant of NiO (11.9[\[49\]](#page-14-0) ), the permittivity of vacuum, the charge carrier density, the applied potential, the flat band potential, Boltzmann's constant, and temperature, respectively. The calculated electron density and hole density of NiO/Ru and NiO are 9.197 × 10<sup>18</sup> cm<sup>−</sup><sup>3</sup> and 1.758 × 1018 cm<sup>−</sup>3, respectively. The flat band potential of NiO/Ru and NiO are estimated to be 0.17 and 1.32 V vs. RHE, respectively. The width (W) of the space charge region of the developed NiO/Ru and NiO were calculated using Equation (2).[\[90\]](#page-15-0)

$$W = \sqrt{\frac{2\varepsilon_0 \varepsilon (V - V_{FB})}{eN_d}}$$
 (2)

Meanwhile, the widths of the space charge regions for NiO/Ru and NiO were determined to be 6.14 × 10<sup>−</sup><sup>9</sup> and 3.22 × 10<sup>−</sup><sup>8</sup> m, respectively, confirming that the design of *n*-type semiconductor heterostructures is effective in reducing space-charge regions and enabling the accumulation of relatively high surface charge concentrations. The Hall effect measurement, a powerful technology for investigating charge transfer properties, was further employed to characterize the carrier concentration and carrier mobility of NiO/Ru and NiO samples. By determining the positive or negative value of the carrier concentration from the Hall effect measurement, the p-type or n-type of the semiconductor can be identified. As shown in Table S1 (Supporting Information), NiO/Ru demonstrates n-type characteristics with higher carrier concentration and mobility, as well as lower resistivity compared to pure NiO. These findings align with the analysis of the Mott– Schottky test. These results indicate that the design NiO/Ru semiconductor heterostructure, not only induces a transition from *p*type NiO to *n*-type NiO/Ru, but also significantly increases the carrier concentration, resulting in higher electron conductivity, which is highly beneficial for catalytic reactions.

#### **2.2. Electrocatalytic Performance Evaluation**

The HER performance of the prepared catalysts was evaluated in a 1 m KOH solution by using a typical three-electrode configuration, with Hg/HgO and a graphite rod serving as the reference electrode and counter electrode, respectively. Linear sweep voltammograms (LSV) curves were recorded to estimate the HER performance of the as-prepared samples. In **Figure 4**[a,](#page-7-0) NiO/Ru demonstrates impressive catalytic activity, achieving a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> with a small overpotential of 29.3 mV, which is very close to that of commercial Pt/C (10.4 mV) and Ru (19.2 mV). Meanwhile, it outperforms the NiO (620.1 mV) and Ni-pre (467.1 mV) catalysts, as well as the reported state-of-theart precious metal-based HER catalysts (Figure 4i; Table S2, Supporting Information). The enhanced catalytic activity is attributed to the synergistic optimization of the electronic structure of the NiO/Ru heterostructure. At larger current densities, NiO/Ru requires ultralow overpotentials of 87.8, 129.3, and 215.4 mV to reach 100, 200, and 500 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, respectively, which are significantly lower than those of Pt/C (161.5, 262.5, and 424.8 mV) and Ru (103.8, 163.2, and 285.3 mV), as presented in Figure [4b.](#page-7-0) Notably, the most intriguing HER activity is achieved after 40 cycles of the electrochemical deposition process (Figure S7, Supporting Information). To investigate the kinetic behavior of the catalysts, the Tafel plots and corresponding Tafel slopes were fitted based on their corresponding LSV curves. As depicted in Figure [4c,](#page-7-0) the Tafel slope of NiO/Ru is determined to be 46.8 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1, which is smaller than that of NiO (263.9 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), Ru (65.0 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), Ni-pre (215.1 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), and commercial Pt/C (48.6 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1). The Tafel slope reflects the rate-determining step (RDS) of catalytic process.[\[42,44\]](#page-14-0) It can be observed that the slow Volmer kinetic mechanism of NiO and Ni-pre is transformed into the more efficient Volmer–Heyrovsky mechanism in NiO/Ru upon anchoring of the Ru nanoclusters. In electrochemical reactions, the apparent activity of catalysts is closely associated with the electrochemical active surface area (ECSA), as a larger ECSA implies the availability of more active sites for the reaction.[\[29,35\]](#page-14-0) Typically, ECSA can be evaluated using electrochemical double-layer capacitance (*C*dl), which can be obtained by scanning CV curves at various scan rates within the non-Faradaic potential range (Figure S8, Supporting Information). The *C*dl values of NiO/Ru, NiO, Ru, and Ni-pre are 27.0, 26.9, 49.8, and 1.3 mF cm<sup>−</sup>2, respectively. The intrinsic activity of catalyst is an important metric for assessing HER performance. Normalizing the polarization curve by ECSA is a widely accepted approach to evaluate intrinsic activity.[\[35,91\]](#page-14-0) As shown in Figure [4e,](#page-7-0) NiO/Ru still demonstrates the smallest overpotential, indicating its higher intrinsic catalytic activity compared to that of NiO, Ru, and Ni-pre. To gain a deeper understanding of the intrinsic activity of the samples, the turnover frequency (TOF) was calculated.[\[29,42,52\]](#page-14-0) At an overpotential of 200 mV, the NiO/Ru heterostructure exhibited a significantly higher TOF value of 8.08 s<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> compared to NiO (0.13 s<sup>−</sup>1), Ru (5.26 s<sup>−</sup>1), Ni-pre (0.45 s<sup>−</sup>1), and Pt/C (2.65 s<sup>−</sup>1), illustrating an enhanced intrinsic activity per site (Figure [4f;](#page-7-0) Figure S9, Supporting Information). In addition, the electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) spectra in Figure [4g](#page-7-0) are performed to investigate the charge-transfer kinetics of the prepared catalysts. NiO/Ru exhibited the smallest charge transfer resistance (*R*ct) among NiO, Ru, Ni-pre, and Pt/C, indicating superior interfacial charge transfer kinetics for HER, which confirms that the incorporation of Ru nanoclusters on NiO can indeed enhance the HER kinetics. The long-term operational durability of the catalyst was evaluated using continuous chronopotentiometry measurements in Figure [4h.](#page-7-0) NiO/Ru exhibited outstanding long-term stability with negligible degradation after 261 h of continuous operation at a current density of 10 mAcm<sup>−</sup>2. After conducting HER measurements, the phase, morphology, and composition of NiO/Ru were characterized (Figures S10 and S16, Supporting Information), which showed no obvious changes compared to its original state. These results confirm that NiO/Ru maintains its structural integrity entirely due to the strong interaction between electrons at the interface. Besides, we compare the carrier concentrations of cyclic voltammetry electrodeposition for NiO/Ru over 40 cycles (NiO/Ru-40C), 20 cycles (NiO/Ru-20C), and pure NiO in Figure S11 (Supporting Information). The outcomes reveal that NiO/Ru-40c records the highest carrier concentration (electrons: 9.2 × 10<sup>18</sup> cm<sup>−</sup>3), followed by NiO/Ru-20c (electrons: 8.57 × 1018 cm<sup>−</sup>3) and pristine NiO (holes: 1.76 × 1018 cm<sup>−</sup>3). The semiconductor type of the catalyst transitions from *p*-type (main carriers: holes) to *n*-type (main carriers: electrons). EIS analysis can be used to decouple electronic and charge transfer resistances simultaneously to gain insights into detailed kinetics. We

<span id="page-7-0"></span>**Figure 4.** Electrocatalytic HER performance. a) LSV curves of NiO/Ru, NiO, Ru, Ni-pre, CFC, and Pt/C in 1.0 m KOH solutions. b) Histogram of overpotentials at 10, 10, 200, and 500 mA cm−<sup>2</sup> of various catalysts. c) Tafel plots calculated from HER polarization curves. d) Calculated electrochemical double-layer capacitances of various catalysts. e) ECSA normalized polarization curves. f) TOF and EIS Nyquist plots g) of various catalysts. h) Durability measurement of NiO/Ru for HER at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. i) Comparison of overpotentials for NiO/Ru with other reported state-of-the-art electrocatalysts at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2.

performed EIS analysis for NiO/Ru-40c, NiO/Ru-20c, and NiO sample during HER process. Nyquist plots and corresponding fitting results at various electrochemical potentials (ranging from −0.05 to −0.13 V vs. RHE) for HER are depicted in Figure S12 (Supporting Information). The electrochemical parameters, including electrolyte resistance (*R*s), *R*ct at the sample/electrolyte interface, *C*dl, charge transport resistance (*R*g), and chemical capacitance (*C*g), were determined by fitting the EIS data with the equivalent circuit model. It can be observed that the *R*ct gradually decreases with an increase in overpotential (Figure S12d–f, Supporting Information). This potential-dependent variation can be explained by the Butler–Volmer equation, which indicates an exponential relationship between the catalytic current density and the applied potential. For the NiO sample, *R*ct is generally greater than 300 Ω. However, after loading with Ru particles, the *R*ct of the NiO/Ru-40c and NiO/Ru-20c samples can be reduced to below 10 Ω, corresponding to a faster charge transfer at the electrode/electrolyte interface. Generally, HER kinetics is the key processes of hydrogen evolution, which can be evaluated by the reaction rate constant (*k*) calculated from the EIS fitting results according to equation of *k* = (*C*dl × *R*ct) <sup>−</sup>1. The results indicate that the *k* gradually increases with the overpotential () for HER, which can be explained by the equation of the *k*– relationship (*k* = *k*0·exp(*F*/*RT*)), where , *F*, *R*, and *T* are the transfer coefficient, faradaic constant, ideal gas constant, and temperature, respectively. Meanwhile, compared to the NiO sample, the HER kinetics of the NiO/Ru-40c and NiO/Ru-20c samples significantly improved after Ru deposition. This suggests that the assembly of metal oxide/Ru heterostructure is beneficial for enhancing HER activity. Finally, we compared the *R*ct, *N*d, and *k* for NiO/Ru-40c, NiO/Ru-20c, and NiO samples in Figure S13 (Supporting Information). The above results indicate that after Ru deposition on the surface of NiO, the semiconductor type transitions gradually from hole-dominant *p*-type to electron-dominant *n*-type, leading to a significant increase in carrier concentration, thereby enhancing the conductivity of the semiconductor catalyst. Further confirmation of the significantly enhanced HER reaction kinetics was obtained through in-situ EIS analysis.

The oxidation of hydrazine was carried out under similar conditions to HER testing, with the exception that 0.5 m N2H4 was added to 1 m KOH. First, the electrocatalytic effect of NiO/Ru on HzOR was evaluated in a 1 m KOH solution with different concentrations of N2H4 ranging from 0 to 2.0 m in the electrolyte (**Figure 5**[a\)](#page-9-0). It was observed that no anodic current density was observed in the potential window of −0.1 to 0.6 V vs. RHE when tested without hydrazine. Conversely, the addition of a 0.1 m hydrazine solution significantly increased the anode current density. Meanwhile, the response current density increased as the concentration of the hydrazine solution increased from 0.1 to 0.5 m. When the concentration of hydrazine was increased to 2.0 m, the increase in current density was not significant. Therefore, for cost considerations, 0.5 m hydrazine was adopted. Figure [5b](#page-9-0) shows the electrocatalytic HzOR activity of NiO/Ru, NiO, Ru, Ni-pre, and Pt/C measured in a 1 M KOH/0.5 M N2H4 electrolyte. Both NiO and Ni-pre catalysts exhibit negligible anodic current density. The corresponding potentials of NiO/Ru at current densities of 10, 100, 300, and 500 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> are −0.079, −0.048, 0.003, and 0.049 V vs. RHE, respectively. Compared to NiO and Ru, the performance of the semiconductor heterointerface with interface effect is significantly improved, and it also outperforms Pt/C. We also evaluated the HzOR performance of NiO/Ru catalysts with different electrodeposition cycles (Figure S14, Supporting Information), and it is evident that the catalyst with 40 cycles exhibits the highest activity for HzOR. Figure [5c](#page-9-0) shows that the Tafel slope of NiO/Ru is significantly smaller (8.7 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1) than those of NiO (99.8 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), Ru (9.6 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), Ni-pre (214.3 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), and Pt/C (25.3 mV dec<sup>−</sup>1), indicating faster HzOR reaction kinetics in the NiO/Ru heterostructure. [5d](#page-9-0) Furthermore, EIS plots were conducted to investigate the electrode kinetics involved in HzOR (Figure [5d\)](#page-9-0). As anticipated, the NiO/Ru heterointerface displayed smaller *R*ct than that of Pt/C. Additionally, the long-term operational durability of the catalysts was evaluated through continuous chronopotentiometry measurements. As shown in Figure [5e,](#page-9-0) NiO/Ru exhibited stable operation for 107 h at current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, demonstrating the excellent stability of NiO/Ru for HzOR. After the HzOR measurement, the phase, morphology, and composition of NiO/Ru were characterized (Figures S15 and S16, Supporting Information), and no obvious changes were observed compared to the original state. These results confirm that NiO/Ru maintains its structural integrity entirely due to the strong interface electron interaction. Subsequently, toxicity tests were conducted to further confirm the active sites of NiO/Ru in HzOR and HER by adding thiocyanate (SCN<sup>−</sup>) and tetramethylammonium cation (TMA<sup>+</sup>) ions to the electrolyte. It has been reported that TMA<sup>+</sup> has adsorption properties for O-group elements, while Ru atoms are prone to adsorbing SCN<sup>−</sup>, which can lead to a decrease in catalytic activity. After adding SCN<sup>−</sup> and TMA<sup>+</sup> to the electrolyte, both the HzOR (Figure [5f\)](#page-9-0) and HER (Figure [5g\)](#page-9-0) catalytic performance of NiO/Ru significantly decreased. SCN<sup>−</sup> is capable of poisoning Ru sites and leading to the inactivation of Ru clusters. TMA<sup>+</sup> can be absorbed on the O site to block the path of hydrogen overflow, thereby influencing the process of HER. Based on the catalytic performance and toxicity test results, the Ru atoms can be determined as the catalytic active site both for HzOR and HER, while the NiO carrier also plays a significant role (Figure [5h\)](#page-9-0). In order to demonstrate reproducibility, additional electrodes were produced using the same synthesis procedure. As depicted in Figure S17 (Supporting Information), their HER and HzOR polarization curves closely coincide, indicating excellent reproducibility.

To gain more insights into the original active sites of electrocatalysts, the in-situ electrochemical Raman spectra were recorded to investigate the alkaline HER behavior at the NiO/Ru and pure NiO surfaces. In the alkaline electrolyte, the generation of protons through water decomposition is a key process, with the assessment of water adsorption capacity serving as a crucial indicator of catalytic activity. Simultaneously, the variation in the local reaction microenvironment typically involves dynamic composite processes of different interfacial water structures.[\[52,92,93\]](#page-15-0) In Figure S18a (Supporting Information), the broad peak spanning from 2900 to 3700 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> corresponds to the adsorbed water peak on the catalyst surface. It can be decomposed into four Gaussian peaks at 3000, 3205, 3428, and 3608 cm<sup>−</sup>1, which can be assigned to special hydrogen-bonded water, four hydrogenbonded water (4-HBW), two hydrogen-bonded water (2-HBW), and K<sup>+</sup> hydrated water in the O–H stretching vibration.[\[93\]](#page-15-0) In stark contrast, regarding the NiO/Ru electrocatalyst, the Raman

<span id="page-9-0"></span>**Figure 5.** a) Electrocatalytic HzOR performance. a) Polarization curves of NiO/Ru toward different concentrations of hydrazine. b) LSV curves of NiO/Ru, NiO, Ni-pre, and Pt/C in 1.0 m KOH/0.5 m hydrazine electrolyte. c) The corresponding Tafel plots. d) EIS Nyquist plots of various catalysts. e) Chronopotentiometry curve of NiO/Ru at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. Polarization curves of NiO/Ru were obtained for HzOR f) and HER g) during catalytic center poisoning experiments with TMA<sup>+</sup> (1 m TMAH) and SCN<sup>−</sup> (1 m KOH/0.01 m KSCN). h) Schematic of electrochemical reaction on M–O/Ru semiconductor heterostructure.

signals of tetrahedrally and trihedrally coordinated water gradually weaken across the entire potential range (from OCP to −0.12 V vs. RHE), providing evidence that the NiO/Ru surface depletes MO-H species during the HER process. As the HER progresses, the activity of H2O further diminishes, confirming that Ru acts as the active site for water dissociation (Figure S18b–d, Supporting Information). For HzOR, due to the high activity of NiO/Ru, a large number of bubbles can be generated even at very low potentials, making it challenging to obtain high-quality Raman signals. Given this situation, we further explore the hydrazine oxidation process using in-situ Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR). As illustrated in Figure S19 (Supporting Information), the potential-dependent in-situ FTIR spectra of HzOR on NiO/Ru and pure NiO reveal two visible peaks at 1631 and 3080–3700 cm<sup>−</sup><sup>1</sup> assigned to the adsorbed HNH and N–H/O–H at low potential, suggesting the effective adsorption of N2H4. [\[94\]](#page-15-0) Compared with pure NiO, as the potentials scan positively from 0.06 to 0.28 V vs. RHE, the relative intensities of all the peaks gradually decrease, indicating the rapid oxidation of N2H4 on the surface of NiO/Ru.

Based on the above results, it can be concluded that Ru nanoclusters can induce a transition from *p*-type NiO to

*n*-type NiO/Ru, significantly enhancing the catalytic activity of the NiO/Ru semiconductor heterostructure for both HER and HzOR. As a result, a two-electrode cell was employed using the NiO/Ru electrode as both anode and cathode to investigate its performance in hydrazine-assisted water electrolysis as schematically presented in **Figure 6**[a.](#page-11-0) The electrolyte for the cathode contained 1.0 M KOH, while the electrolyte for the anode contained 1.0 m KOH/0.5 m N2H4. In the digital image (Figure [6b\)](#page-11-0) and Movie S1 (Supporting Information), vigorous gas bubbles can be observed rapidly overflowing from the individual electrode surfaces. Remarkably, the NiO/Ru cell achieved a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> at a cell voltage of only 0.021 V in the LSV curve (Figure [6c\)](#page-11-0), while a conventional OER/HER cell required a much higher cell voltage of 1.58 V to achieve the same current density due to sluggish anodic OER kinetics, highlighting the crucial role of HzOR in reducing the cell voltage of water electrolysis. Meanwhile, at larger current densities (Figure [6d\)](#page-11-0), the HzOR/OER cell requires an ultralow voltage of 0.11, 0.22, 0.32, and 0.43 V to reach 50, 100, 150, and 200 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2, respectively, which is significantly lower than that of OER/HER cell (1.70, 1.77, 1.82, and 1.88 V). In addition, the Faradaic efficiency of the gas product was determined using the drainage method during electrolysis under a current density of 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. As depicted in Figure [6e,](#page-11-0) the amount of H2 collected by the HzOR/HER system closely matched the calculated value, indicating a Faraday efficiency of over 99%. Thus, the energy consumption required to produce one cubic meter of H2 at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> in this coupling system is reduced to 0.52 kWh, which is significantly lower than that of Pt/C (0.87 kWh m<sup>−</sup><sup>3</sup> H2) and even lower than the theoretical limit of the OER/HER system (2.94 kWh m<sup>−</sup><sup>3</sup> H2). Overall, the radar map in Figure [6f](#page-11-0) provides further evidence of the superior performance of the NiO/Ru semiconductor heterostructure compared to the commercial Pt/C catalyst (Figure S20, Supporting Information). Remarkably, the long-term galvanostatic test of the HzOR/HER electrolysis cell at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> demonstrated robust stability, allowing for continuous operation for 181 h (Figure [6g\)](#page-11-0). Compared to the state-of-theart coupling system, NiO/Ru shows excellent electrocatalytic performance in the hydrazine-assisted HER electrolyzer (Figure [6h;](#page-11-0) Table S3, Supporting Information).

To confirm the generality of the construction strategy, we obtained a series of n-type semiconductor heterostructures using a similar synthesis process. We selected some common *p*type (Co3O4, NiCo2O4, CuCo2O4, ZnCo2O4) and *n*-type (Fe2O3) semiconductors, and prepared the corresponding semiconductor heterostructures (Co3O4/Ru, NiCo2O4/Ru, CuCo2O4/Ru, ZnCo2O4/Ru, and Fe2O3/Ru) using conventional hydrothermal synthesis, high-temperature calcination, and electrodeposition processes. Their phase and morphology were characterized using XRD, SEM, and EDS techniques (Figures S21 and S22, Supporting Information). The Mott–Schottky curves (**Figure [7](#page-12-0)**) of the synthesized semiconductor heterostructures showed a transition from *p*-type to *n*-type after loading with Ru clusters. For the bimetallic systems, including NiCo2O4/Ru, CuCo2O4/Ru, and ZnCo2O4/Ru, the Mott−Schottky curves showed an inverted Vshape, which may be attributed to the non-uniform loading of Ru clusters on the carries. Meanwhile, the carrier concentrations of semiconductor heterostructures loaded with Ru clusters are further increased compared to oxide supports. Additionally, the HER and HzOR catalytic activities of the semiconductor heterostructures were evaluated, and their performance was significantly improved compared to that of pure oxide supports (Figure [7,](#page-12-0) Table S4, Supporting Information). As demonstrated, introducing Ru clusters onto semiconductor metal oxide supports can construct dual-functional catalysts with high catalytic activity, and this strategy provides a certain degree of extensibility.

#### **2.3. Theoretical Calculations and Catalytic Mechanism**

A series of DFT calculations was performed to investigate the underlying mechanism behind the superior HER/HzOR performance of the NiO/Ru catalyst. Given the impracticality of using Ru NPs with an average size of 5 nm in DFT calculations, we chose to adopt the Ru13 cluster for simplicity. As illustrated in **Figure 8**[a,](#page-13-0) we constructed a composite model of Ru13 nanoclusters supported on NiO substrate. In Figure [8b,c,](#page-13-0) the charge density difference analysis and corresponding 2D contour map reveal electron transfer from the NiO substrate to the Ru13 nanocluster, which is consistent with the results of XPS spectra and calculated work functions. This implies a strong interfacial interaction and synergistic effect between Ru13 nanocluster and the NiO substrate in the semiconductor heterostructure. We investigated the adsorption energy of H2O and OH on various sites (top, bridge, substrate, and middle) as shown in Figure S24 (Supporting Information). Among these sites, the NiO/Ru-top site exhibits a higher Δ*G*\*H2O value of −1.03 eV compared to NiO/Ru-Bri (−0.27 eV), NiO/Ru-Sub (−0.69 eV), NiO/Ru-Mid (−0.79 eV), Ru (−0.20 eV), and NiO (−0.85 eV), indicating that the Ru sites within the NiO substrate can enhance H2O adsorption (Figure S25a, Supporting Information). Additionally, NiO/Ru demonstrates a higher average Δ*G*\*OH than NiO and Ru, implying more favorable \*OH adsorption (Figure S25b, Supporting Information). The Gibbs free energy of hydrogen adsorption (ΔG\*H) is a crucial parameter used to evaluate the activity of HER.[\[29,50\]](#page-14-0) For highly efficient HER electrocatalysts, it is essential to have a moderate ΔG\*H value near zero, which ensures a balance between the binding strength of hydrogen adsorption that is neither too strong nor too weak. As displayed in Figure [8d](#page-13-0) and Figure S23 (Supporting Information), the Δ*G*\*H of Ru was calculated to −0.32 eV. After being incorporated into the composite NiO support, the catalytic sites in the Ru nanocluster can be classified into three types: Ru-Top site, Ru-Middle site, and Ru-Bottom site. Among these sites, the Ru-Top site exhibits a lower Δ*G*\*H value (−0.24 eV) compared to the Ru-Middle site (−0.95 eV) and Ru-Bottom site (−1.39 eV), which promotes the desorption of hydrogen intermediates during the HER reaction. As DFT calculations on the relationship between catalytic activity and semiconductor metal oxide heterostructures for HzOR are still at the infant stage, interpreting the potential electrochemical reaction mechanism is particularly meaningful. The well-known oxidation process of hydrazine involves the adsorption of hydrazine molecules and four consecutive dehydrogenation steps (N2H4→N2H3→N2H2→N2H→N2).[\[36\]](#page-14-0) Therefore, we calculated the free energy of adsorbed hydrazine molecules and each dehydrogenation step on the surfaces of NiO, Ru, and NiO/Ru13, as illustrated in Figure [8e](#page-13-0) and Figure S26 (Supporting Information). NiO/Ru13 exhibits a more negative Δ*G*<sup>∗</sup>N2H4 of −0.89 eV compared to NiO (−0.26 eV), indicating more

<span id="page-11-0"></span>**Figure 6.** Performance of hydrazine-assisted water electrolysis for hydrogen production. a) The schematic illustration of two-electrode cell using NiO/Ru electrode as both anode and cathode for hydrazine-assisted water electrolysis. b) Optical image of the two-electrode electrolyzer employing HzOR as the anode reaction and HER as the cathode reaction. c) LSV curves of NiO/Ru couple in 1.0 M KOH with and without hydrazine in a two-electrode system. d) Histogram of cell voltages at 10, 50, 100, 150, and 200 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. e) Faradaic efficiency of hydrogen production at 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. f) The radar charts of catalytic activities for NiO/Ru and Pt/C. g) Stability measurement of NiO/Ru for hydrazine-assisted hydrogen production at a current density of 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup>2. h) Comparison of the cell voltage at 10 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> for NiO/Ru with previously reported state-of-the-art electrocatalysts.

<span id="page-12-0"></span>**Figure 7.** Various *n*-type semiconductor heterostructures for HER and HzOR electrocatalysis. Mott–Schottky plots of Co3O4 a), Co3O4/Ru b), NiCo2O4 e), NiCo2O4/Ru f ), CuCo2O4 i), CuCo2O4/Ru j), ZnCo2O4 m), ZnCo2O4/Ru n), Fe2O3 q), and Fe2O3 r). LSV plots of Co3O4 and Co3O4/Ru for HER c) and HzOR d). LSV plots of NiCo2O4 and NiCo2O4/Ru for HER g) and HzOR h). LSV plots of CuCo2O4 and CuCo2O4/Ru for HER k) and HzOR l). LSV plots of ZnCo2O4 and ZnCo2O4/Ru for HER o) and HzOR p). LSV plots of Fe2O3 and Fe2O3/Ru for HER s) and HzOR t).

<span id="page-13-0"></span>**Figure 8.** a) The theoretical structure of NiO/Ru13. b) The differential charge density distributions between Ru13 clusters and NiO substrate. The yellow and blue isosurfaces represent charge accumulation and depletion in the space, respectively. c) The corresponding 2D contour map of charge density distribution. d) Free energy profiles of HER for NiO/Ru13, NiO, and Ru. e) The free energy profiles of HzOR on the NiO/Ru13, NiO, and Ru surfaces.

favorable N2H4 adsorption, which is crucial for further catalytic oxidation. Moreover, the comparative calculation results of the free energy changes for each dehydrogenation step of NiO, Ru, and NiO/Ru13 show that the rate-determining steps (PDS) for NiO and Ru are the desorption process from \*N2 to N2, with energy barriers of 0.90 and 0.65 eV, respectively. In contrast, the PDS for NiO/Ru13 is the dehydrogenation process from \*NH2NH2 to \*NH2NH, with an energy barrier of 0.54 eV, consistent with the higher HzOR activity of NiO/Ru compared to single NiO and Ru. These results indicate that constructing NiO/Ru heterojunctions can effectively modulate the electronic structure of the interface, thereby optimizing the thermodynamic behavior of surface sites for HER and HzOR. Additionally, based on semiconductor electronics, introducing electron-rich Ru nanoclusters can induce *p*-to-*n* type transitions in semiconductors, significantly reducing the space charge region, increasing the concentration of charge carriers, improving the conductivity of electrocatalysts, and achieving excellent bifunctional catalytic activity.

## **3. Conclusion**

In summary, we propose a feasible strategy for interface modulation that enables efficient hydrogen evolution and hydrazine oxidation through the construction of *n*-type semiconductor heterostructures. We design metal–semiconductor contacts using Ru nanoclusters and a range of metal oxide semiconductor heterostructures, including *p*-type semiconductor substrates (NiO, Co3O4, NiCo2O4, CuCo2O4, ZnCo2O4) and n-type semiconductor substrate (Fe2O3). Interestingly, Ru nanoclusters supported on *p*-type metal oxide substrates induce a transition from *p*type M-O to *n*-type M-O/Ru. The design of *n*-type semiconductor heterostructures significantly reduces space-charge regions and increases charge carrier concentration, thereby improving the electrical conductivity of electrocatalysts. Moreover, according to DFT calculation, Ru atoms on the semiconductor heterostructure serve as highly efficient active sites for HER and HzOR. The NiO/Ru heterostructure drives current densities of 10 and 100 mA cm<sup>−</sup><sup>2</sup> with only 0.021 and 0.22 V cell voltages for hydrazine-assisted water electrolysis. Our work provides new insights for developing highly efficient semiconductor catalysts, enabling energy-saving hydrogen production.

#### **Supporting Information**

Supporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.

## **Acknowledgements**

This work was supported in part by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 22273069), and the Open Fund of

16163028, 2025, 6, Downloaded from https://advanced.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/adfm.202415058 by University Of Science, Wiley Online Library on [07/01/2026]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License

<span id="page-14-0"></span>the Hubei Provincial Key Laboratory of Green Materials for Light Industry (202307A07), the Natural Science Foundation of Xiaogan City (XGKJ2023010058), and the National College Students Innovation and Entrepreneurship Training Program (DC2024041).

### **Conflict of Interest**

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

# **Author Contributions**

M.Z., Z.Y., G.Y., and R.F. contributed equally to this work.

## **Data Availability Statement**

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

### **Keywords**

heterostructures, hydrazine oxidation reaction, hydrogen evolution reaction, metal–semiconductor contact, n-type semiconductor

> Received: August 16, 2024 Published online: September 9, 2024

- [1] S. Chu, A. Majumdar, *Nature* **2012**, *488*, 294.
- [2] S. Chu, Y. Cui, N. Liu, *Nat. Mater.* **2017**, *16*, 16.
- [3] J. A. Turner, *Science* **2004**, *305*, 972.
- [4] B. You, Y. Sun, *Acc. Chem. Res.* **2018**, *51*, 1571.
- [5] Z. W. Seh, J. Kibsgaard, C. F. Dickens, I. Chorkendorff, J. K. Nørskov, T. F. Jaramillo, *Science* **2017**, *355*, eaad4998.
- [6] T. Wang, L. Tao, X. Zhu, C. Chen, W. Chen, S. Du, Y. Zhou, B. Zhou, D. Wang, C. Xie, P. Long, W. Li, Y. Wang, R. Chen, Y. Zou, X.-Z. Fu, Y. Li, X. Duan, S. Wang, *Nat. Catal.* **2022**, *5*, 66.
- [7] M. F. Lagadec, A. Grimaud, *Nat. Mater.* **2020**, *19*, 1140.
- [8] L. Zhang, Z. Wang, J. Qiu, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2109321.
- [9] Y. Zang, D.-Q. Lu, K. Wang, B. Li, P. Peng, Y.-Q. Lan, S.-Q. Zang, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 1792.
- [10] Z.-Y. Yu, C.-C. Lang, M.-R. Gao, Y. Chen, Q.-Q. Fu, Y. Duan, S.-H. Yu, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2018**, *11*, 1890.
- [11] T. Wang, X. Cao, L. Jiao, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202213328.
- [12] X. Zheng, J. Yang, P. Li, Z. Jiang, P. Zhu, Q. Wang, J. Wu, E. Zhang, W. Sun, S. Dou, D. Wang, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202217449.
- [13] S.-K. Geng, Y. Zheng, S.-Q. Li, H. Su, X. Zhao, J. Hu, H.-B. Shu, M. Jaroniec, P. Chen, Q.-H. Liu, S.-Z. Qiao, *Nat. Energy* **2021**, *6*, 904.
- [14] N. K. Shrestha, S. A. Patil, A. S. Salunke, A. I. Inamdar, H. Im, *J. Mater. Chem. A* **2023**, *11*, 14870.
- [15] W.-J. Liu, Z. Xu, D. Zhao, X.-Q. Pan, H.-C. Li, X. Hu, Z.-Y. Fan, W.-K. Wang, G.-H. Zhao, S. Jin, G. W. Huber, H.-Q. Yu, *Nat. Commun.* **2020**, *11*, 265.
- [16] Y. Li, W. Liu, Z. Zhang, X. Du, L. Yu, Y. Deng, *Commun Chem* **2019**, *2*, 67.
- [17] W. Tang, L. Zhang, T. Qiu, H. Tan, Y. Wang, W. Liu, Y. Li, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202305843.
- [18] H. Zhao, D. Lu, J. Wang, W. Tu, D. Wu, S. W. Koh, P. Gao, Z. J. Xu, S. Deng, Y. Zhou, B. You, H. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2021**, *12*, 2008

- [19] D. Li, Z. Li, Z. Chen, G. Shi, L. Wang, Z. Chen, W. Tu, R. Xia, E. I. Iwuoha, C. Liu, X. Peng, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *13*, 2300427.
- [20] T. Rafaïdeen, S. Baranton, C. Coutanceau, *Appl. Catal., B* **2019**, *243*, 641.
- [21] Z. Wang, X. Liao, M. Zhou, F. Huang, K. A. Owusu, J. Li, Z. Lin, Q. Sun, X. Hong, C. Sun, Y. Cheng, Y. Zhao, L. Mai, *Energy Environ. Mater.* **2023**, *6*, e12409.
- [22] Z. Li, Y. Yan, S.-M. Xu, H. Zhou, M. Xu, L. Ma, M. Shao, X. Kong, B. Wang, L. Zheng, H. Duan, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 147.
- [23] Y. Li, X. Wei, L. Chen, J. Shi, M. He, *Nat. Commun.* **2019**, *10*, 5335.
- [24] K. Xiang, D. Wu, X. Deng, M. Li, S. Chen, P. Hao, X. Guo, J.-L. Luo, X.-Z. Fu, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2020**, *30*, 1909610.
- [25] K. Gao, M. Zhou, Y. Liu, S. Wang, R. Fu, Z. Wang, J. Guo, Z. Liu, H. Wang, Y. Zhao, Q. Wang, *J. Colloid Interface Sci.* **2024**, *657*, 290.
- [26] L. Yi, Y. Ji, P. Shao, J. Chen, J. Li, H. Li, K. Chen, X. Peng, Z. Wen, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2021**, *60*, 21550.
- [27] G. Yang, Y. Jiao, H. Yan, Y. Xie, A. Wu, X. Dong, D. Guo, C. Tian, H. Fu, *Adv. Mater.* **2020**, *32*, 2000455.
- [28] Y. Gao, L. Ge, H. Xu, K. Davey, Y. Zheng, S.-Z. Qiao, *ACS Catal.* **2023**, *13*, 11204.
- [29] J. Li, Y. Ma, C. Zhang, C. Zhang, H. Ma, Z. Guo, N. Liu, M. Xu, H. Ma, J. Qiu, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 8146.
- [30] L. Wang, B. Ji, Y. Zheng, Y. Tang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202301711.
- [31] G. Han, G. Li, Y. Sun, *Nat. Catal.* **2023**, *6*, 224.
- [32] Y. Huang, X. Chong, C. Liu, Y. Liang, B. Zhang, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2018**, *57*, 13163.
- [33] Y. Li, Y. Jiao, H. Yan, G. Yang, Y. Liu, C. Tian, A. Wu, H. Fu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202306640.
- [34] Y. Sun, H. Shin, F. Wang, B. Tian, C.-W. Chiang, S. Liu, X. Li, Y. Wang, L. Tang, W. A. Goddard III, M. Ding, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2022**, *144*, 15185.
- [35] Z. Wang, L. Xu, F. Huang, L. Qu, J. Li, K. A. Owusu, Z. Liu, Z. Lin, B. Xiang, X. Liu, K. Zhao, X. Liao, W. Yang, Y.-B. Cheng, L. Mai, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2019**, *9*, 1900390.
- [36] D. Yan, C. Mebrahtu, S. Wang, R. Palkovits, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202214333.
- [37] R. Subbaraman, D. Tripkovic, D. Strmcnik, K.-C. Chang, M. Uchimura, A. P. Paulikas, V. Stamenkovic, N. M. Markovic, *Science* **2011**, *334*, 1256.
- [38] W. J. Mitchell, J. Xie, T. A. Jachimowski, W. H. Weinberg, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **1995**, *117*, 2606.
- [39] J. Mahmood, F. Li, S.-M. Jung, M. S. Okyay, I. Ahmad, S.-J. Kim, N. Park, H. Y. Jeong, J.-B. Baek, *Nat. Nanotechnol.* **2017**, *12*, 441.
- [40] C. Cai, K. Liu, Y. Zhu, P. Li, Q. Wang, B. Liu, S. Chen, H. Li, L. Zhu, H. Li, J. Fu, Y. Chen, E. Pensa, J. Hu, Y.-R. Lu, T.-S. Chan, E. Cortés, M. Liu, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2022**, *61*, 202113664.
- [41] X. Sui, L. Zhang, J. Li, K. Doyle-Davis, R. Li, Z. Wang, X. Sun, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2102556.
- [42] Z. Chen, X. Li, J. Zhao, S. Zhang, J. Wang, H. Zhang, J. Zhang, Q. Dong, W. Zhang, W. Hu, X. Han, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202308686.
- [43] H. Hu, Z. Zhang, Y. Zhang, T. Thomas, H. Du, K. Huang, J. P. Attfield, M. Yang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2023**, *16*, 4584.
- [44] Q. Hu, K. Gao, X. Wang, H. Zheng, J. Cao, L. Mi, Q. Huo, H. Yang, J. Liu, C. He, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 3958.
- [45] P. Kuang, Y. Wang, B. Zhu, F. Xia, C.-W. Tung, J. Wu, H. M. Chen, J. Yu, *Adv. Mater.* **2021**, *33*, 2008599.
- [46] Y. Gao, Y. Xue, L. Qi, C. Xing, X. Zheng, F. He, Y. Li, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 5227.
- [47] J. Zhang, Y. Zhao, X. Guo, C. Chen, C.-L. Dong, R.-S. Liu, C.-P. Han, Y. Li, Y. Gogotsi, G. Wang, *Nat. Catal.* **2018**, *1*, 985.
- [48] J. Chen, C. Chen, M. Qin, B. Li, B. Lin, Q. Mao, H. Yang, B. Liu, Y. Wang, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 5382.

- <span id="page-15-0"></span>[49] Y. Da, Z. Tian, R. Jiang, G. Chen, Y. Liu, Y. Xiao, J. Zhang, S. Xi, W. Chen, X. Han, W. Hu, *ACS Nano* **2023**, *17*, 18539.
- [50] G. Li, H. Jang, S. Liu, Z. Li, M. G. Kim, Q. Qin, X. Liu, J. Cho, *Nat. Commun.* **2022**, *13*, 1270.
- [51] J. Cai, J. Ding, D. Wei, X. Xie, B. Li, S. Lu, J. Zhang, Y. Liu, Q. Cai, S. Zang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2021**, *11*, 2100141.
- [52] L. Wang, M. Ma, C. Zhang, H.-H. Chang, Y. Zhang, L. Li, H.-Y. Chen, S. Peng, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2024**, *63*, 202317220.
- [53] Z. Shi, X. Zhang, X. Lin, G. Liu, C. Ling, S. Xi, B. Chen, Y. Ge, C. Tan, Z. Lai, Z. Huang, X. Ruan, L. Zhai, L. Li, Z. Li, X. Wang, G.-H. Nam, J. Liu, Q. He, Z. Guan, J. Wang, C.-S. Lee, A. R. J. Kucernak, H. Zhang, *Nature* **2023**, *621*, 300.
- [54] L. Wang, Z. Xu, C.-H. Kuo, J. Peng, F. Hu, L. Li, H.-Y. Chen, J. Wang, S. Peng, *Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.* **2023**, *62*, 202311937.
- [55] J. Gao, F. Sahli, C. Liu, D. Ren, X. Guo, J. Werner, Q. Jeangros, S. M. Zakeeruddin, C. Ballif, M. Grätzel, J. Luo, *Joule* **2019**, *3*, 2930.
- [56] J. Zhu, R. Lu, W. Shi, L. Gong, D. Chen, P. Wang, L. Chen, J. Wu, S. Mu, Y. Zhao, *Energy Environ. Mater.* **2023**, *6*, e12318.
- [57] D. Chen, Z. Pu, R. Lu, P. Ji, P. Wang, J. Zhu, C. Lin, H.-W. Li, X. Zhou, Z. Hu, F. Xia, J. Wu, S. Mu, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2020**, *10*, 2000814.
- [58] H. S. Chavan, C. H. Lee, A. I. Inamdar, J. Han, S. Park, S. Cho, N. K. Shreshta, S. U. Lee, B. Hou, H. Im, H. Kim, *ACS Catal.* **2022**, *12*, 3821.
- [59] M. Kim, J. Park, H. Ju, J. Y. Kim, H.-S. Cho, C.-H. Kim, B.-H. Kim, S. W. Lee, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2021**, *14*, 3053.
- [60] X. Cheng, Y. Li, L. Zheng, Y. Yan, Y. Zhang, G. Chen, S. Sun, J. Zhang, *Energy Environ. Sci.* **2017**, *10*, 2450.
- [61] C. Li, S. H. Kim, H. Y. Lim, Q. Sun, Y. Jiang, H.-J. Noh, S.-J. Kim, J. Baek, S. K. Kwak, J.-B. Baek, *Adv. Mater.* **2023**, *35*, 2301369.
- [62] S. Z. Bisri, S. Shimizu, M. Nakano, Y. Iwasa, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1607054.
- [63] H. Yang, Q. He, Y. Liu, H. Li, H. Zhang, T. Zhai, *Chem. Soc. Rev.* **2020**, *49*, 2916.
- [64] J. Wang, M. Yan, K. Zhao, X. Liao, P. Wang, X. Pan, W. Yang, L. Mai, *Adv. Mater.* **2017**, *29*, 1604464.
- [65] Y. He, Q. He, L. Wang, C. Zhu, P. Golani, A. D. Handoko, X. Yu, C. Gao, M. Ding, X. Wang, F. Liu, Q. Zeng, P. Yu, S. Guo, B. I. Yakobson, L. Wang, Z. W. Seh, Z. Zhang, M. Wu, Q. J. Wang, H. Zhang, Z. Liu, *Nat. Mater.* **2019**, *18*, 1098.
- [66] H. Du, X. Lin, Z. Xu, D. Chu, *J. Mater. Sci.* **2015**, *50*, 5641.
- [67] J. M. Sieben, E. Morallón, D. Cazorla-Amorós, *Energy* **2013**, *58*, 519.
- [68] A. W. Bott, *Curr. Sep.* **1998**, *17*, 87.
- [69] Y. Yan, J. Lin, T. Xu, B. Liu, K. Huang, L. Qiao, S. Liu, J. Cao, S. C. Jun, Y. Yamauchi, J. Qi, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2022**, *12*, 2200434.
- [70] J. Qian, X. Guo, T. Wang, P. Liu, H. Zhang, D. Gao, *Appl. Catal., B* **2019**, *250*, 71.

- [71] A. Ruiz Puigdollers, P. Schlexer, S. Tosoni, G. Pacchioni, *ACS Catal.* **2017**, *7*, 6493.
- [72] S. C. Ammal, A. Heyden, *J. Chem. Phys.* **2010**, *133*, 164703.
- [73] L. Giordano, J. Goniakowski, G. Pacchioni, *Phys. Rev. B* **2001**, *64*, 075417.
- [74] Y. Zhou, Z. Zhang, Z. Fang, M. Qiu, L. Ling, J. Long, L. Chen, Y. Tong, W. Su, Y. Zhang, J. C. Wu, J.-M. Basset, X. Wang, G. Yu, *Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA* **2019**, *116*, 10232.
- [75] S. Park, H.-S. Ahn, C.-K. Lee, H. Kim, H. Jin, H.-S. Lee, S. Seo, J. Yu, S. Han, *Phys. Rev. B* **2008**, *77*, 134103.
- [76] J. Wang, Z. Wang, B. Huang, Y. Ma, Y. Liu, X. Qin, X. Zhang, Y. Dai, *ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces* **2012**, *4*, 4024.
- [77] A. Naldoni, M. Allieta, S. Santangelo, M. Marelli, F. Fabbri, S. Cappelli, C. L. Bianchi, R. Psaro, V. Dal Santo, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2012**, *134*, 7600.
- [78] Y. Zhang, C. Ma, X. Zhu, K. Qu, P. Shi, L. Song, J. Wang, Q. Lu, A.-L. Wang, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2023**, *13*, 2301492.
- [79] J. M. McKay, V. E. Henrich, *Phys. Rev. B* **1985**, *32*, 6764.
- [80] F. J. Himpsel, K. Christmann, P. Heimann, D. E. Eastman, P. J. Feibelman, *Surf. Sci.* **1982**, *115*, L159.
- [81] T. Okazawa, M. Fujiwara, T. Nishimura, T. Akita, M. Kohyama, Y. Kido, *Surf. Sci.* **2006**, *600*, 1331.
- [82] H. Jung, Y. Kim, K. Jung, H. Im, Y. A. Pashkin, O. Astafiev, Y. Nakamura, H. Lee, Y. Miyamoto, J. S. Tsai, *Phys. Rev. B* **2009**, *80*, 125413.
- [83] W. Chen, Y. Wu, J. Fan, A. B. Djuriši´c, F. Liu, H. W. Tam, A. Ng, C. Surya, W. K. Chan, D. Wang, Z.-B. He, *Adv. Energy Mater.* **2018**, *8*, 1703519.
- [84] D. Qi, P. Li, H. Ou, D. Wu, W. Lian, Z. Wang, F. Ouyang, Y. Chai, W. Zhang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2023**, *33*, 2301704.
- [85] Z. Yang, R. Wu, D. W. Goodman, *Phys. Rev. B* **2000**, *61*, 14066.
- [86] Y.-Q. Zhao, B. Liu, Z.-L. Yu, D. Cao, M.-Q. Cai, *Electrochim. Acta* **2017**, *247*, 891.
- [87] H. Shi, H. Pan, Y.-W. Zhang, B. I. Yakobson, *Phys. Rev. B* **2013**, *87*, 155304.
- [88] Y. Yan, J. Lin, K. Huang, X. Zheng, L. Qiao, S. Liu, J. Cao, S. C. Jun, Y. Yamauchi, J. Qi, *J. Am. Chem. Soc.* **2023**, *145*, 24218.
- [89] S. Yang, C. Liu, H. Li, S. Wang, J. Choi, L. Li, *Energy Storage Mater.* **2021**, *39*, 278.
- [90] Y. Zhang, Y. Li, X. Xin, Y. Wang, P. Guo, R. Wang, B. Wang, W. Huang, A. J. Sobrido, X. Li, *Nat. Energy* **2023**, *8*, 504.
- [91] J. Wang, M. Zhou, R. Fu, J. Ge, W. Yang, X. Hong, C. Sun, X. Liao, Y. Zhao, Z. Wang, *Adv. Funct. Mater.* **2024**, *34*, 2315326.
- [92] A. I. Inamdar, H. S. Chavan, B. Hou, C. H. Lee, S. U. Lee, S. Cha, H. Kim, H. Im, *Small* **2020**, *16*, 1905884.
- [93] X. Zheng, X. Shi, H. Ning, R. Yang, B. Lu, Q. Luo, S. Mao, L. Xi, Y. Wang, *Nat. Commun.* **2023**, *14*, 4209.
- [94] Y. Feng, Q. Shi, J. Lin, E. Chai, X. Zhang, Z. Liu, L. Jiao, Y. Wang, *Adv. Mater.* **2022**, *34*, 2207747.