---
source: Zhu 等 - 2022 - Dual Nanoislands on NiC Hybrid Nanosheet Activate Superior Hydrazine Oxidation‐Assisted High‐Effici.pdf
tool: marker
duration: 5.257s
generated: 2026-01-10T08:13:35.705410Z
---

# *Angewandte* Forschungsartikel *Chemie*

### Electrocatalysis

Zitierweise: Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2022, 61, e202113082 Internationale Ausgabe: doi.org/[10.1002/anie.202113082](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202113082) Deutsche Ausgabe: doi.org[/10.1002/ange.202113082](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.202113082)

### Dual Nanoislands on Ni/C Hybrid Nanosheet Activate Superior Hydrazine Oxidation-Assisted High-Efficiency H<sup>2</sup> Production

Yin Zhu<sup>+</sup> , Jihua Zhang<sup>+</sup> , Qizhu Qian<sup>+</sup> , Yapeng Li, Ziyun Li, Yi Liu, Chong Xiao,\* Genqiang Zhang\* and Yi [Xie\\*](http://orcid.org/0000-0002-1416-5557)

Abstract: Clean hydrogen evolution through electrochemical water splitting underpins various innovative approaches to the pursuit of sustainable energy conversion technologies, but it is blocked by the sluggish anodic oxygen evolution reaction (OER). The hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR) has been considered as one of the most promising substitute for OER to improve the efficiency of hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). Herein, we construct novel dual nanoislands on Ni/C hybrid nanosheet array: one kind of island represents the part of bare Ni particle surface, while the other stands for the part of core– shell Ni@C structure (denoted as Ni-C HNSA), in which exposed Ni atoms and Ni-decorated carbon shell perform as active sites for HzOR and HER respectively. As a result, when the current density reaches 10 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> , the working potentials are merely @37 mV for HER and -20 mV for HzOR. A twoelectrode electrolyzer exhibits superb activity that only requires an ultrasmall cell voltage of 0.14 V to achieve 50 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> .

#### Introduction

Water electrocatalysis has been categorized as an environmental-friendly and efficient route to obtain high purity hydrogen (H2) with zero-carbon.[1] Two half reactions are included in electrochemical water splitting process: the cathodic hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and the anodic oxygen evolution reaction (OER). However, the OER limits the practical application of H<sup>2</sup> generation through electro-

[\*] Y. Zhu,[+] Q. Z. Qian,[+] Y. P. Li, Z. Y. Li, Y. Liu, Prof. C. Xiao,

Prof. G. Q. Zhang, Prof. Y. Xie

Hefei National Laboratory for Physical Sciences at the Microscale, CAS Key Laboratory of Materials for Energy Conversion, Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Science and Technology of China

Hefei, Anhui, 230026 (P. R. China)

E-Mail: cxiao@ustc.edu.cn gqzhangmse@ustc.edu.cn yxie@ustc.edu.cn

Prof. C. Xiao, Prof. Y. Xie

Institute of Energy, Hefei Comprehensive National Science Center Hefei, Anhui, 230031 (P. R. China)

Dr. J. H. Zhang[+]

Guizhou Provincial Key Laboratory of Computational Nano-Material Science, Guizhou Education University Guiyang, Guizhou 550018 (P. R. China)

+ ] These authors contributed equally to this work.

Supporting information and the ORCID identification number(s) for the author(s) of this article can be found under: [https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202113082.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202113082)

lyzing water due to its sluggish kinetics stemming from the four-electron transfer (Scheme 1A). Nowadays, hydrazine oxidation reaction (HzOR) has become a promising and profiting route to replace the traditional OER process for realizing energy-saving H<sup>2</sup> production, owing to its much lower thermodynamic oxidation potential of hydrazine (@0.33 V vs. RHE) as well as the higher safety when mixing the anodic N<sup>2</sup> and cathodic H<sup>2</sup> in the membrane-free cell.[2] In order to accelerate the advance of this relatively nascent realm, much more attention should be devoted to pursuing the appropriate materials which possess the ability to catalyze high-performance HER and HzOR simultaneously.

Considering such a promising candidate, previous researches show that the metal sites are frequently deemed as the fundamental active sites towards HzOR.[3] Some Ni-based materials have been explored as the great HzOR electrocatalysts, such as NixCo<sup>1</sup>@<sup>x</sup> -ANSA, NiS<sup>2</sup> , Ni2P, NiCoN, etc, suggesting its fascinating properties in this domain.[4] With regard to optimization of the cathode HER, transition metal decorated carbon-based composites (TM-Cs) have emerged as the promising HER candidates recently in electrocatalysis since the activated carbon tends to be the efficient HER active sites. [5] For example, BaoQs group has reported that the CoNi@NC electrocatalyst displays excellent HER activity. The well-tailorable electronic structure of nearby C can be precisely modulated by the encapsulated metal particles, thus achieving an optimized electrocatalytic performance. [7] Nevertheless, there are still several challenges to meet the practical application. Firstly, there are rare candidates satisfying the catalytic demands concurrently for HER and HzOR, due to the different active species for corresponding catalytic process which is unfavorable to broaden the application of materials and simplify the understanding of kinetics. [8] Furthermore, the present few-reported bifunctional catalysts towards HER and HzOR tend to show unsatisfying performance (Scheme 1 B). To hit the spot of superior bifunctional performance, the design of precise and high-performance materials, which integrate corresponding adequate active sites for HER and HzOR, is of great significance.

Herein, we originally construct novel dual nanoislands on Ni/C hybrid nanosheet array: one kind of island represents the part of bare Ni particle surface, while the other stands for the part of core–shell Ni@C structure (denoted as Ni-C HNSA) via the facile low-temperature pyrolysis of Ni-based MOF in N<sup>2</sup> atmosphere. Different from the traditional hightemperature pyrolysis strategy, annealing at low-temperature avoids the severe agglomeration of metal particles and burial

Scheme 1. Exploring the bifunctional electrocalatyst which possesses dual-active sites toward HzOR and HER to realize high-efficient H<sup>2</sup> production.

of active sites, [5a,9] while the MOF precursor endows highly porous feature. [10] This nanosheet-array electrode integrates sufficient exposed Ni particles as well as the abundant carboncoated Ni units, hence showing highly-efficient and ultrastable electrocatalytic performance toward both HER and HzOR in alkaline media (Scheme 1). Specifically, it only needs an ultrasmall overpotential of 37 mV to reach a current density of 10 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> with a small Tafel slope of 31.9 mVdec@<sup>1</sup> for HER in 1.0 M KOH, which is comparable to benchmark Pt/C. As for HzOR, it only requires an ultralow working potential of @20 mV (vs. RHE) to generate 10 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> in 1.0 M KOH/0.1 M N2H<sup>4</sup> electrolyte. Furthermore, a two-electrode electrolyzer for OHzS utilizing the Ni-C HNSA as both anode and cathode catalysts can drive 50 and 200 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> under the ultralow cell voltages of 0.14 and 0.4 V, respectively, suggesting the great potential for energysaving H<sup>2</sup> production compared to the overall water splitting (OWS) system. The DFT calculation illustrates that the carbon sites could act as HER active sites by balancing the H\* adsorption/desorption, while the exposed Ni atoms express more favorable dehydrogenation kinetics contributing to the superior HzOR activity.

#### Results and Discussion

The synthesis of Ni-C HNSA is extremely simple via the low-temperature calcination of Ni-MOF precursor. The morphological characterizations were investigated by fieldemission scanning electron microscopy (FESEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Firstly, well-defined Ni-MOF nanosheet arrays grown on Ni foam can be observed after the hydrothermal growth (Figure S1–S3, Supporting Information).[11] Further, the thermal gravimetric analysis (TGA) indicates that the carbonization process of Ni-MOF happens between 350–5008C (Figure S4, Supporting Information), demonstrating the possibility of low temperature pyrolysis. [12] After annealing the Ni-MOF under N<sup>2</sup> at 450 8C for 2 h, the nanosheet array architecture is well retained and composed of evenly dispersed nanoparticles (NPs) shaped as islands with average sizes ranging from 6–9 nm (Figure 1A– C), guaranteeing the maximized accessibility of active sites for electrocatalytic process. Besides, the XRD pattern of powders scratched from Ni foam (Figure S6, Supporting Information) shows pure metallic Ni phase (JCPDS No. 04- 0850), and the Raman spectrum (Figure S7, Supporting Information) appears two obvious vibration peaks belonging to C species, confirming the valid transformation from the Ni-MOF precursor to Ni-C hybrid structure. More interestingly, the high resolution TEM (HRTEM) analysis (Figure 1D) indicates that there are obviously two types of island-like NPs existing concurrently, one is entirely covered by carbon layers, and the other shows the exposed surfaces, as labeled in the elliptic regions in E, and F, respectively. Clearly, two kinds of crystal plane with d-spacing of 0.20 nm in the inner core and 0.34 nm on the outer shell can be assigned to the (111) plane of Ni and (002) plane of graphitic C (Figure 1 E),[13] suggesting the generation of carbon-coated Ni nanoparticle. Meanwhile, some NPs with interplanar spacing of 0.20 nm belonging to Ni (111) exhibit the exposed surface (Figure 1 F), which is quite unique. Notably, such two different Ni forms are ubiquitous in the whole hybrid structure with an estimated mass ratio of 1.9:1 (Figure S8–S10, Supporting Information), serving the bifunctional catalytic hybrid nanosheets (Figure S11 and S12, Supporting Information). The corresponding energy-dispersive X-ray (EDX) mapping shows that the Ni and C elements are distributed homogeneously over the whole nanosheet (Figure 1G). Also, the pyrolysis temperature has a great impact on the morphology and structure of the samples, where lower temperature fails to induce the generation of the pure metallic Ni phase while the higher temperature causes the shrinkage of nanosheets and agglomeration of granules (Figure S13–S17, Supporting Information), thus 4508C is the optimal temperature.

To investigate surface composition and chemical state of Ni-C HNSA, the X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) characterization (Figure S18, Supporting Information) indicates the elements of Ni, C, and O can be clearly identified in Ni-C HNSA, which is concordant with the element mapping results. In the Ni 2p XPS spectrum (Figure 1H), the spinspitted peaks appeared at 852.9 and 870.2 eV can be associated with the metallic Ni.[4a, 14] Moreover, Ni 2+ species are also detected on the surface, which is quite different from the XPS spectra of Ni MOF (Figure S19, Supporting Information), inferring the oxidation of surface metallic Ni NPs when exposed to the air.[15] In the C 1s high-resolution spectrum (Figure 1 I), the intensification of C@C and C=C peaks located at 284.8 eV while the attenuation of O=C@O

Figure 1. The morphology, microstructure and element characterizations of Ni-C HNSA. A, B) FESEM and C) TEM images. D–F) HRTEM analysis. G) HAADF-SEM image and corresponding elemental mapping results. H, I) The XPS high-resolution spectra of Ni 2p and C 1s, respectively.

means the successful conversion of organic ligands to carbon, matching well with the HRTEM and Raman results. [10b]

The electrocatalytic HER activity was firstly evaluated by a typical three-electrode configuration in 1.0 M KOH electrolyte and all the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves were corrected with iR correction and background rectification (Figure S20, Supporting Information).[16] First, the annealing temperature optimization confirms that the sample annealed under 450 8C shows the best catalytic activity (Figure S21 and S22, Supporting Information), hence employed for the systematic electrochemical tests. The LSV curves of different electrocatalysts are illustrated in Figure 2A, among which the Ni-C HNSA exhibits the superior HER performance with an ultralow overpotential of only 37 mV to achieve the current density of 10 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> , much better than that of the Ni-MOF precursor (97 mV), even comparable with the state-of-the-art Pt/C catalyst (32 mV). Frankly, this value makes Ni-C HNSA one of the top-notch TM-based electrocatalysts among the numerous reported materials (Table S1, Supporting Information). Furthermore, to reach higher current densities of 50, 100 and 200 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> , the Ni-C HNSA electrode just requires small overpotentials of 78, 109, and 156 mV, indicating its outstanding HER activity. To verify the effect of C, the Ni NPs arrays loading on Ni foam without coating of carbon (denoted as Ni NSA) was synthesized (Figure S23 and S24, Supporting Information) with a high overpotential of 93 mV to attain the current density of 10 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> . The acid-etching sample that removes the exposed Ni particles (denoted as Ni@C NSA) exhibits a slightly higher overpotential of 68 mV to reach 10 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> (Figure S25 and S26, Supporting Information). These results imply that the carbon coating in Ni-C HNSA plays a critical role in promoting electrocatalytic performance. The Tafel slopes in Figure 2 B show that the Ni-C HNSA possesses the value of 31.9 mVdec@<sup>1</sup> , smaller than Ni NSA (82.3 mVdec@<sup>1</sup> ), Ni@C NSA (33.9 mVdec@<sup>1</sup> ), Ni-MOF (188.3 mVdec@<sup>1</sup> ), exhibiting its faster reaction kinetics, and comparable to Pt/C (28.7 mVdec@<sup>1</sup> ) that possibly experiences a Volmer-Tafel mechanism.[2b] In addition, the electrochemical surface areas (ECSAs) and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) were investigated to further explain the superior HER capacity. [17] As shown in Figure S27 of Supporting Information, the Ni-C HNSA exhibits an ECSA value of 53.6 cm<sup>2</sup> , which is larger than that of Ni NSA (48.64 cm<sup>2</sup> ), and Ni@C NSA (34.79 cm<sup>2</sup> ), supporting the most accessible active sites. According to the LSV curves normalized by the ECSA, the Ni-C HNSA electrode still shows the best catalytic performance (Figure S28, Supporting Information). To further assess the intrinsic specific activity of Ni-C HNSA, the turnover frequency (TOF) was also investigated (Figure S29 and S30, Supporting Information). When h is 150 mV, the Ni-C HNSA possesses the largest TOF value of 0.64 s @1 , which is larger than that of commercial Pt/C (0.57 s @1 ), Ni@C NSA (0.28 s @1 ), and Ni NSA (0.12 s @1 ). The Ni-C HNSA also owns the smallest charge transfer resistance (Rct) compared with other samples, uncovering its better interfacial charge transfer kinetics (Figure S31, Supporting Information). These results indicate that the Ni-C hybrid can remarkably improve the intrinsic activity, thus endows better HER performance. The durability is also an important parameter in practical operation. The chronoamperometric

Figure 2. The HER and HzOR performance characterization. A) The comparing polarization curves tested in 1.0 M KOH with a scan rate of 5 mVs@<sup>1</sup> , and B) corresponding Tafel plots of different catalysts. C) The chronoamperometric curve at the overpotential of 59 mV. D) HER polarization curves after different CV cycles, inset exhibits the corresponding Nyquist plots. E) HzOR polarization curves in 1.0 M KOH with different concentrations of N2H<sup>4</sup> . F) The comparing HzOR LSV curves tested in 1.0 M KOH/0.1 M N2H<sup>4</sup> with a scan rate of 5 mVs@<sup>1</sup> , and G) corresponding Tafel plots of different catalysts. H) HzOR polarization curves after different CV cycles, inset is the corresponding Nyquist plots. I) The chronoamperometric curve recorded at the working potential of @20 mV.

curve (about 50 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> ) at the overpotential of 59 mV (Figure 2 C) can be well-maintained for at least 50 hours. Meanwhile, the LSV curves exhibit negligible decay after the successive 5k and 10k CV cycles compared with the initial one (Figure 2D), and the Rct nearly remains the same (the inset of Figure 3D). These results showcase the remarkable electrochemical stability of Ni-C HNSA, which may result from the structure rigidity. Figure S32 (Supporting Information) shows that the post-catalytic sample maintains the nanosheet morphology with the well-dispersed nanoparticles after the long-term HER durability test. The identical XRD patterns and Raman spectra between the initial and used samples further prove the steady Ni-C hybrid structure. Particularly, the dual-sites of exposed and carbon encapsulated Ni particles can also be well maintained (Figure S33, Supporting Information). Furthermore, the XPS characterizations suggest that the bind energy of Ni and C peaks remains unchanged compared with the fresh samples, unveiling the stable surface chemical states of the Ni-C hybrid structure after the HER test (Figure S34, Supporting Information). These results suggest the excellent structural robustness of the hybrid structure during the HER process.

The HzOR electrocatalytic performance of Ni-C HNSA was then measured in KOH/N2H<sup>4</sup> electrolyte. Likewise, 450 8C is still the appropriate annealing temperature for HzOR (Figure S35 and S36, Supporting Information). The LSV measurement was firstly carried out with different hydrazine concentrations in alkaline solution. As depicted in Figure 2 E, the current increases continually along with the accumulation of N2H<sup>4</sup> and finally keeps constant when reaching 0.1 M, evidencing the large potential of the hybrid to electrocatalyze the oxidation of N2H<sup>4</sup> molecule. Further, the comparing polarization curves (Figure 2 F) obviously exhibit the superiority of the Ni-C HNSA than other samples towards HzOR. Specifically, it only takes a working potential of @20 mV to reach a current density of 10 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> , which outperforms the Ni NSA (110 mV), Ni-MOF (57 mV), Ni@C NSA (147 mV), and Pt/C (0 mV). In the meantime, the corresponding Tafel slope value of Ni-C HNSA electrode (Figure 2G) is mere 16.2 mVdec@<sup>1</sup> , far less than that of commercial Pt/C (57.8 mVdec@<sup>1</sup> ), let alone the huge advantage than those of Ni NSA (126.7 mVdec@<sup>1</sup> ), Ni@C NSA (132.9 mVdec@<sup>1</sup> ), and Ni MOF (73.5 mVdec@<sup>1</sup> ), indicating the much-advanced HzOR kinetics. Meanwhile, the ECSA normalized LSV curves confirm the intrinsically superior

Figure 3. The OHzS performance survey. A) The comparing LSV curves of Ni-C HNSA in 1.0 M KOH with or without 0.1 M N2H<sup>4</sup> . B) The compared LSV curves of Ni-C HNSA and commercial Pt/C (20 wt.%) in 1.0 M KOH with 0.1 M N2H<sup>4</sup> . C) Comparison of the cell voltages at different current densities for OHzS and OWS. D) Comparison of LSV curves for OHzS in 1.0 M KOH/0.1 M N2H<sup>4</sup> and OWS in 1.0 M KOH. E) The chronoamperometric curve for OHzS recorded at the voltage of 0.14 V in 1.0 M KOH/0.2 M N2H<sup>4</sup> . F) The comparation of experimentally and theoretically hydrogen yield.

catalytic activity compared to these control samples towards hydrazine oxidation catalysis (Figure S37, Supporting Information). The smallest Rct indicates the most favorable charge transfer process in the electrode/electrolyte interface (Figure S38, Supporting Information). Furthermore, Ni-C HNSA possesses the good stability for HzOR as the current density shows almost no decrease within 5k cycles. Even undergoing 10k cycles, the working potential for 10 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> slightly increases from @20 mV to @17 mV (Figure 2H), and the semi-circle in the inset of Figure 2H is only slightly enlarged. Besides, the multi-step chronoamperometric curve was employed to survey the overall stability of the electrode (Figure S39, Supporting Information), and the current density begins from 0 mA cm@<sup>2</sup> and finally reaches at 1100 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> with an increment of 40 mVevery 400 s. The current at all the steps responses and levels off quickly, exhibiting great mass transportation property and mechanical robustness of Ni-C HNSA. Besides, the negligible changes of current density when the scan rate changes from 5 to 100 mVs @1 (Figure S40, Supporting Information) substantiate the efficient charge and mass transport during the catalytic process. [18] Moreover, the I–t curve indicates that the current density could keep at & 10 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> for at least 25 h, showing an outstanding durability (Figure 2 I). Furthermore, the combined characterizations regarding the morphology, corresponding XRD patterns and Raman spectra (Figure S41, Supporting Information) of the post-catalytic sample reveal that the Ni-C hybrid nanosheet experienced no obvious change with wellretained dual-island active sites (Figure S42, Supporting Information), as well as the similar surface chemical states before and after the HzOR test (Figure S43, Supporting Information), suggesting the robust durability during the HzOR process.

Owing to the excellent electrocatalytic performance towards both HER and HzOR, we further conducted a twoelectrode test using the Ni-C HNSA as bifunctional electrodes to investigate the possibility of hybrid water electrolysis for energy-saving H<sup>2</sup> production. Firstly, the HER performance in the three-electrode system was compared with/ without N2H<sup>4</sup> . Figure 3A displays two almost overlapped LSV curves, proving the innocuousness of hydrazine towards reduction process. The compared polarization curves of OHzS and OWS shown in Figure 3 B suggest a dramatic improvement of activity after the addition of N2H<sup>4</sup> . Numerically, OHzS system can achieve a high current density of 200 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> at a lower cell voltage of 0.4 V, which is almost 1.5 V lower than that of OWS, as well as the same lower working voltage of 0.14, 0.25, and 0.34 V to reach the current density of 50, 100, and 150 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> , displaying great thermodynamic advantage of OHzS (Figure 3 C). Moreover, the Ni-C HNSA couple acts better than the Pt/C couple in this OHzS system (Figure 3D), suggesting the advantage of the hybrid electrocatalyst. Also, the current density at 50 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> just changes slightly during 30 hours of I–t test (Figure 3 E), performing the brilliant stability of Ni-C HNSA electrode in OHzS for the practical application. The nearly 100% faradic efficiency of cathodic H<sup>2</sup> generation during the OHzS process indicates the highly efficient electron utilization of Ni-C HNSA for hydrazine oxidation-assisted hydrogen production (Figure 3 F).

To demystify the underlying origins between the catalytic activity and the hybrid structure, DFT calculations were performed for both HER and HzOR processes. According to the HRTEM results, the Ni (111) surface matched with graphene layer was chosen as the calculation model (Figure 4A). As a comparison, the bare Ni (111) surface of Ni

Figure 4. DFT calculations. A) Top- and side- view of DFT-relaxed Ni-C HNSA model. B) The Gibbs free energy diagram of HER for Ni in Ni NSA, Ni in Ni-C HNSA, and C in Ni-C HNSA, insets represent the relevant H\* adsorption model. C) Side- and top- view of charge density difference analysis for Ni-C HNSA, in which the cyan region representing charge depletion and the yellow region representing charge accumulation. D) The free energy profiles of HzOR reaction pathways on the Ni of Ni NSA and Ni-C HNSA, as well as the model of hydrazine and the corresponding intermediates.

NSA was selected to experience the same calculation procedure (Figure S44, Supporting Information). During the HER catalysis, the satisfactory catalysts require the hydrogen adsorption Gibbs free energy (DGH\*) closer to zero. [19] Among the investigated H\* adsorption models (Figures S45–S47, Supporting Information), the free-energy diagram (Figure 4 B) illustrates that the bare Ni site in Ni NSA shows a minimum DGH\* (@0.33 eV), and the Ni site in Ni-C HNSA also holds a smaller DGH\* of @0.26 eV, which is disadvantageous for H<sup>2</sup> release. [20] On the contrary, the DGH\* on the C site of Ni-C HNSA is 0.1 eV, which approaches to thermoneutral H\* adsorption, confirming its favorable HER kinetics. The Ni-C hybrid could induce relevant electron transferring from Ni NPs to the surrounding graphene and regulate the electron distribution in the heterointerface (Figure 4 C), which contributes to activity improvement.[21] As for HzOR, there is little work on metal-carbon composite structure, thus making it hard while important to unveil the specific mechanism of the Ni-C HNSA with superior HzOR activity. For the poor N2H<sup>4</sup> adsorption capacity of carbon, different Ni sites are used to compare. [3a] Figure 4D describes the stepwise dehydrogenation process of N2H<sup>4</sup> molecule and its intermediates on the Ni site for both Ni NSA and Ni-C

HNSA, along with the relative free energy profiles. [22] Firstly, the absorption of N2H<sup>4</sup> is exothermic on bare Ni of Ni NSA (@0.63 eV), while it is endothermic (0.38 eV) on the Ni site of Ni-C HNSA. However, Ni NSA needs to overcome an energy barrier of 0.51 eV for the dehydrogenation process from \*NH2NH<sup>2</sup> to \*NHNH<sup>2</sup> . As for Ni-C HNSA, the successive dehydrogenation and the final desorption of \*N<sup>2</sup> to N<sup>2</sup> is downhill and spontaneous, indicating the rate-determining step (RDS) is the initial N2H<sup>4</sup> adsorption (0.38 eV). The activation energy of Ni-C HNSA is 0.13 eV smaller than that of Ni NSA (0.51 eV), suggesting that the Ni site in the hybrid structure is advantageous to fulfill the multi-step dehydrogenation reaction. Experimentally, the sharply reduced current density of HzOR compared to the slightly descending one of HER when blocking the exposed Ni sites with SCN@ (Figure S48, Supporting Information) further supports the theoretical calculation results. Based on the above analysis, we propose that Ni-C HNSA possesses dual-active sites as the C moderates H\* adsorption and the Ni atoms exhibit more thermodynamically favorable N2H<sup>4</sup> dehydrogenation, realizing the excellent electrocatalytic activity towards HER and HzOR synchronously.

.

#### Conclusion

In conclusion, we have constructed novel dual nanoislands on Ni/C hybrid nanosheet array: one kind of island represents the part of bare Ni particle surface, while the other stands for the part of core–shell Ni@C structure (denoted as Ni-C HNSA), which achieves the efficient integration of dualactive sites and exhibits splendid bifunctional activity towards HzOR and HER in alkaline electrolyte. Theoretically, the DFT calculations reveal that the booming bifunctionality could be attributed to the concurrent characteristic dualisland active sites structure of Ni-C HNSA, as C sites create a more thermoneutral H\* adsorption value of 0.1 eV for HER and the exposed Ni surfaces lead to favorable N2H<sup>4</sup> dehydrogenation kinetics. Asaresult, the overpotential for HER to achieve 10 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> is as low as 37 mV, as well as the ultralow working potential of @20 mV for HzOR to reach 10 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> Benefiting from the glorious electrocatalytic activity, the OHzS system only requires a small cell voltage of 0.14 V to generate a current density of 50 mAcm@<sup>2</sup> , demonstrating its great potential for energy-saving H<sup>2</sup> production in practical applications. Our work not only enlightens a unique strategy for energy-saving and high-efficient hydrogen production, but also illuminates a grander prospect design of advanced bifunctional electrocatalysts.

#### Acknowledgements

We acknowledges the financial support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 52072359, 21890750), the Strategic Priority Research Program of Chinese Academy of Sciences (XDB36030300), the Recruitment Program of Global Experts and the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities (WK2060000016, WK2340000094), the Youth Innovation Promotion Association CAS (Y202092), the National Key R&D Program of China (2017YFA0207301). The numerical calculations in this paper have been done in the Supercomputing Center of University of Science and Technology of China and TianHe-2 at LvLiang Cloud Computing Center of China. J.H.Z. acknowledges the Natural Science Foundation from science and technology department of Guizhou Province (Nos. QHPT [2017]5790-02).

#### Conflict of Interest

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

Stichwçrter: DFT calculations · dual active sites · hydrazine electro-oxidation · hydrazine splitting · hydrogen evolution

[1] a) Z. W. Seh, J. Kibsgaard, C. F. Dickens, I. Chorkendorff, J. K. Nørskov, T. F. Jaramillo, Science 2017, 355, eaad4998; b) B. Rausch, M. D. Symes, G. Chisholm, L. Cronin, [Science](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1257443) 2014, 345, [1326](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1257443); c) J. Wang, W. Cui, Q. Liu, Z. Xing, A. M. Asiri, X. Sun, [Adv. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201502696) 2016, 28, 215 – 230.

- [2] a) M. K. Debe, [Nature](https://doi.org/10.1038/nature11115) 2012, 486, 43 51; b) Y. Jiao, Y. Zheng, M. Jaroniec, S. Z. Qiao, Chem. [Soc. Rev.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C4CS00470A) 2015, 44, 2060 – 2086.
- [3] a) Y. Li, J. Zhang, Y. Liu, Q. Qian, Z. Li, Y. Zhu, G. Zhang, Sci. Adv. 2020, 6, eabb4197; b) Y. Liu, J. Zhang, Y. Li, Q. Qian, Z. Li, Y. Zhu, G. Zhang, Nat. Commun. 2020, 11, 1853; c) X. Liu, J. He, S. Zhao, Y. Liu, Z. Zhao, J. Luo, G. Hu, X. Sun, Y. Ding, Nat. Commun. 2018, 9, 4365.
- [4] a) Z. Wang, L. Xu, F. Huang, L. Qu, J. Li, K. A. Owusu, Z. Liu, Z. Lin, B. Xiang, X. Liu, K. Zhao, X. Liao, W. Yang, Y. B. Cheng, L. Mai, [Adv. Energy](https://doi.org/10.1002/aenm.201900390) Mater. 2019, 9, 1900390; b) Q. Qian, Y. Li, Y. Liu, L. Yu, G. Zhang, [Adv. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201901139) 2019, 31, 1901139; c) T. Kou, M. Chen, F. Wu, T. J. Smart, S. Wang, Y. Wu, Y. Zhang, S. Li, S. Lall, Z. Zhang, Y. S. Liu, J. Guo, G. Wang, Y. Ping, Y. Li, Nat. Commun. 2020, 11, 590; d) C. Tang, R. Zhang, W. Lu, Z. Wang, D. Liu, S. Hao, G. Du, A. M. Asiri, X. Sun, [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201608899) Int. Ed. 2017, 56, 842 [– 846](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201608899); [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201608899) 2017, 129, 860 – 864; e) H. Wen, L.-Y. Gan, H.-B. Dai, X.-P. Wen, L.-S. Wu, H. Wu, P. Wang, Appl. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2018.09.043) B 2019, 241, 292 – 298; f) G. Feng, Y. Kuang, P. Li, N. Han, M. Sun, G. Zhang, X. Sun, Adv. Sci. 2017, 4[, 1600179](https://doi.org/10.1002/advs.201600179).
- [5] a) L. Zhang, H. Yang, D. K. J. A. Wanigarathna, B. Liu, [Small](https://doi.org/10.1002/smtd.201700353) Methods 2018, 2[, 1700353](https://doi.org/10.1002/smtd.201700353); b) Y. Yang, Z. Lun, G. Xia, F. Zheng, M. He, Q. Chen, Energy [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C5EE02460A) Sci. 2015, 8, 3563 – 3571; c) Y. Li, J. Gao, F. Zhang, Q. Qian, Y. Liu, G. Zhang, J. [Mater. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8TA06057F) A 2018, 6, 15523 [– 15529](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8TA06057F); d) D. Deng, L. Yu, X. Chen, G. Wang, L. Jin, X. Pan, J. Deng, G. Sun, X. Bao, [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201204958) Int. Ed. 2013, 52, 371 [– 375](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201204958); [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201204958) 2013, 125, 389 – 393; e) Z. Pu, J. Zhao, I. S. Amiinu, W. Li, M. Wang, D. He, S. Mu, [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9EE00197B) [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9EE00197B) Sci. 2019, 12, 952 – 957.
- [6] J. Deng, P. Ren, D. Deng, X. Bao, [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201409524) Int. Ed. 2015, 54, 2100 [– 2104](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201409524); [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201409524) 2015, 127, 2128 – 2132.
- [7] S. Deng, F. Yang, Q. Zhang, Y. Zhong, Y. Zeng, S. Lin, X. Wang, X. Lu, C. Z. Wang, L. Gu, X. Xia, J. Tu, [Adv. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201802223) 2018, 30, [1802223](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201802223).
- [8] Y. Hao, Y. Xu, W. Liu, X. Sun, [Mater. Horiz.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7MH00706J) 2018, 5, 108 115.
- [9] a) Y. Guo, X. Gao, C. Zhang, Y. Wu, X. Chang, T. Wang, X. Zheng, A. Du, B. Wang, J. Zheng, K. Ostrikov, X. Li, J. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9TA00696F) [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9TA00696F) A 2019, 7, 8129 – 8135; b) J. Tang, Y. Yamauchi, [Nat.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nchem.2548) [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nchem.2548) 2016, 8, 638 – 639.
- [10] a) N. L. Torad, B. Ding, W. A. El-Said, D. A. El-Hady, W. Alshitari, J. Na, Y. Yamauchi, X. Zhang, [Carbon](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.carbon.2020.05.013) 2020, 168, 55 – [64](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.carbon.2020.05.013); b) H. Sun, Y. Lian, C. Yang, L. Xiong, P. Qi, Q. Mu, X. Zhao, J. Guo, Z. Deng, Y. Peng, Energy [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8EE00934A) Sci. 2018, 11, 2363 – [2371](https://doi.org/10.1039/C8EE00934A); c) Y. Yang, M. Luo, Y. Xing, S. Wang, W. Zhang, F. Lv, Y. Li, Y. Zhang, W. Wang, S. Guo, [Adv. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201706085) 2018, 30, 1706085.
- [11] a) J. Zhou, Y. Dou, X.-Q. Wu, A. Zhou, L. Shu, J.-R. Li, [Small](https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.201906564) 2020, 16[, 1906564](https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.201906564); b) Q. Liu, L. Xie, X. Shi, G. Du, A. M. Asiri, Y. Luo, X. Sun, [Inorg. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C7QI00808B) Front. 2018, 5, 1570 – 1574.
- [12] a) D.-J. Lee, Q. Li, H. Kim, K. Lee, [Microporous](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.micromeso.2012.07.008) Mesoporous [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.micromeso.2012.07.008) 2012, 163, 169 – 177; b) Y. Han, S. Zhang, N. Shen, D. Li, X. Li, [Mater. Lett.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.matlet.2016.09.051) 2017, 188, 1 – 4.
- [13] a) B. Y. Xia, Y. Yan, N. Li, H. B. Wu, X. W. Lou, X. Wang, Nat. Energy 2016, 1, 15006; b) H. Jin, X. Wang, C. Tang, A. Vasileff, L. Li, A. Slattery, S.-Z. Qiao, [Adv. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.202007508) 2021, 33, 2007508; c) Z. Li, H. He, H. Cao, S. Sun, W. Diao, D. Gao, P. Lu, S. Zhang, Z. Guo, M. Li, R. Liu, D. Ren, C. Liu, Y. Zhang, Z. Yang, J. Jiang, G. Zhang, Appl. [Catal.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apcatb.2018.08.074) B 2019, 240, 112 – 121.
- [14] X. Yang, H. Lin, W. Hua, J. Yang, J. [Porous](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10934-019-00772-4) Mater. 2019, 26, 1713 [– 1720.](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10934-019-00772-4)
- [15] Y. Gu, S. Chen, J. Ren, Y. A. Jia, C. Chen, S. Komarneni, D. Yang, X. Yao, [ACS Nano](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.7b05971) 2018, 12, 245 – 253.
- [16] T.-H. Lu, C.-J. Chen, M. Basu, C.-G. Ma, R.-S. Liu, [Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C5CC06806A) [Commun.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C5CC06806A) 2015, 51, 17012 – 17015.
- [17] a) M. Grden´, M. Alsabet, G. Jerkiewicz, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2012, 4, 3012 – 3021; b) S. Anantharaj, S. Kundu, [ACS](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.9b00686) [Energy](https://doi.org/10.1021/acsenergylett.9b00686) Lett. 2019, 4, 1260 – 1264.

# *Angewandte* Forschungsartikel *Chemie*

- [18] J.-Y. Zhang, H. Wang, Y. Tian, Y. Yan, Q. Xue, T. He, H. Liu, C. Wang, Y. Chen, B. Y. Xia, [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201803543) Int. Ed. 2018, 57, 7649 – [7653](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.201803543); [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.201803543) 2018, 130, 7775 – 7779.
- [19] a) T. Wang, M. Wang, H. Yang, M. Xu, C. Zuo, K. Feng, M. Xie, J. Deng, J. Zhong, W. Zhou, T. Cheng, Y. Li, Energy [Environ.](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9EE01743G) Sci. 2019, 12, 3522 [– 3529](https://doi.org/10.1039/C9EE01743G); b) M. Wang, H. Yang, J. Shi, Y. Chen, Y. Zhou, L. Wang, S. Di, X. Zhao, J. Zhong, T. Cheng, W. Zhou, Y. Li, [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/anie.202013047) Int. Ed. 2021, 60, 5771 – 5777; [Angew. Chem.](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.202013047) 2021, 133, 5835 [– 5841](https://doi.org/10.1002/ange.202013047); c) P. Wang, X. Zhang, J. Zhang, S. Wan, S. Guo, G. Lu, J. Yao, X. Huang, Nat. Commun. 2017, 8, 14580.
- [20] J. Greeley, T. F. Jaramillo, J. Bonde, I. Chorkendorff, J. K. Nørskov, Nat. [Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1038/nmat1752) 2006, 5, 909 – 913.
- [21] J. Lai, B. Huang, Y. Chao, X. Chen, S. Guo, [Adv. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201805541) 2019, 31, [1805541](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201805541).
- [22] L. Zhou, M. Shao, C. Zhang, J. Zhao, S. He, D. Rao, M. Wei, D. G. Evans, X. Duan, [Adv. Mater.](https://doi.org/10.1002/adma.201604080) 2017, 29, 1604080.

Manuskript erhalten: 26. September 2021 Akzeptierte Fassung online: 20. Oktober 2021 Endggltige Fassung online: 25. November 2021